1:1	The word of the blessing of Enoch, according as he blessed the chosen and righteous, who will be present on the day of tribulation to remove all the enemies, and the righteous will be saved.
1:2	And taking up
1:3	And concerning the chosen I speak now, and concerning them I took up my parable.
1:4	and the God of the age will tread upon the earth, upon Mount Sinai, and will appear from
1:5	And all will be afraid, and the Watchers will believe, and they will sing hidden things in all the ends of the
1:6	And high mountains will be shaken and will fall and be dissolved, and
1:7	And the earth will be split with a deep chasm, and all things that are upon the earth will perish, and there will be judgment upon all.
1:8	And with the righteous he will make peace, and upon the chosen there will be preservation and peace, and upon them
1:9	For he comes
2:1	Observe all the works in heaven, how they do not alter their ways, and the luminaries in heaven, how they all rise and set, each appointed in its appointed time, and they appear at their feasts,
2:2	Look at the earth and consider the works that are in it,
2:3	Look at the summer and the winter . . .
3:1	. . . observe and see all the trees . . .
5:1	how the green leaves upon them cover the trees, and all their fruit is for honor and glory. Consider and know concerning all his works, and understand that the living God made them so, and he lives for all the ages;
5:2	and all his works that he made endure forever, proceeding from year to year in this way, and all the works fulfill their tasks for him, and their works do not change, but just as by command everything happens.
5:3	See how the sea and the rivers likewise accomplish and do not alter their works from his words.
5:4	But you have not persevered nor done according to his commandments, but you have turned away and spoken great and harsh words with your impure mouth against his greatness. Because you have spoken against him in your lies, hard-hearted ones, there is no peace for you.
5:5	Therefore your days you
5:6	Then your names will become an eternal curse to all the righteous, and by you all who curse will curse, and all the sinners and ungodly will swear by you, and all the
5:7	And for the elect there will be light and grace and peace, and they will inherit the earth; but for you, the ungodly, there will be a curse.
5:8	Then light and grace will be given to the elect, and they will inherit the earth. Then wisdom will be given to all the elect, and all these will live, and they will never again sin, neither through unfaithfulness nor through pride; and in the enlightened man there will be light, and in the understanding man, insight, and they will not transgress,
5:9	nor will they sin all the days of their life; and they will not die in wrathful anger, but they will complete the number of the days of their life, and their life will increase in peace, and the years of their joy will be multiplied in gladness and eternal peace
6:1	And it came to pass,
6:2	And the angels, the sons of heaven, saw them
6:3	And Semiazas, who was their leader, said to them,
6:4	Then they all answered him,
6:5	Then
6:6	And these were two hundred who descended in the days of Jared upon the summit of Mount Hermoniem,
6:7	And these are the names of their leaders:
6:8	These are the chiefs of their tens.
7:1	And
7:2	And they conceived and bore
7:3	who consumed all the labors of men. But when men were no longer able to sustain them,
7:4	the giants dared to turn against them and consumed mankind.
7:5	And they began to sin against birds and beasts and reptiles and fish,
7:6	Then the earth made accusation against the lawless ones.
8:1	Azael taught men
8:2	And there arose great impiety,
8:3	[...]
8:4	Then, as men were perishing, their cry ascended to heaven.
9:1	Then Michael and Uriel and Raphael and Gabriel, looking down from heaven, saw much blood being shed upon the earth,
9:2	and they said to one another, "A voice of those crying out on the earth reaches as far as the gates of heaven."
9:3	"The souls of men make appeal, saying: 'Bring our cause before the Most High.'"
9:4	And they said to the Lord: "You are Lord of lords and God of gods and King of the ages; the throne of your glory is for all the generations of eternity, and your name is holy and great and blessed unto all the ages." Then the Most High commanded the holy archangels, and they bound their leaders and cast them into the abyss until the judgment.
9:5	"For you made all things, and have all authority, and all things are visible and uncovered before you.
9:6	And you see all things that Azael has done, who taught all unrighteousness upon the earth and revealed the eternal mysteries in heaven, which men practice and have learned;"
9:7	"and Shemihazah, to whom you gave authority to rule over those who are with him."
9:8	"And they went in to the daughters of the men of the earth and slept with them and defiled themselves, and revealed to them all sins."
9:9	"And the women gave birth to giants, by whom the whole earth has been filled with blood and unrighteousness."
9:10	"And now, behold, the souls of those who have died cry out and appeal even to the gates of heaven, and their groaning has ascended and cannot cease because of the lawless deeds that are done upon the earth."
9:11	"And you know all things before they come to pass, and you see these things and permit them, yet you do not tell us what we ought to do to them concerning these things."
10:1	Then the Most High, the Great Holy One, spoke concerning these things, and he spoke and said, and sent Istrael to the son of Lamech:
10:2	"Say to him in my name, 'Hide yourself!' and reveal to him the approaching end, that the whole earth is perishing, and a deluge is about to come upon the whole earth and destroy everything that is in it."
10:3	"And teach him how he may escape, so that his offspring may remain for all the generations of eternity."
10:4	And to Raphael he said: "Bind Azael hand and foot, and cast him into the darkness; and open the desert that is in Dudael, and cast him there;"
10:5	"and lay beneath him rough and sharp stones, and cover him with darkness; and let him dwell there forever, and cover his face so that he may not see light;"
10:6	And on the day of the great judgment he will be led away into the burning fire.
10:7	And heal the earth which the angels have destroyed, and proclaim the healing of the earth, that they may heal the plague, so that not all the sons of men may perish through the whole mystery which the Watchers commanded and taught to their sons.
10:8	And the whole earth was laid waste, being corrupted by the works of the teaching of Asael; and to him ascribe all the sins.
10:9	And the Lord said to Gabriel: 'Go to the bastards, to the half-breeds and to the sons of fornication, and destroy the sons of the Watchers from among humans; send them against one another in a war of destruction, for length of days they do not have.
10:10	And no request will be granted to their fathers on their behalf, though they hope to live an eternal life and that each of them will live five hundred years.'
10:11	And he said to Michael: 'Go and make known to Semyaza and to the rest who are with him, who have united with the women to defile themselves with them in their uncleanness,
10:12	and when their sons are slaughtered and they see the destruction of their beloved ones, bind them for seventy generations in the valleys of the earth until the day of their judgment and consummation, until the judgment of eternity is accomplished.
10:13	Then they will be led away into the abyss of fire and into the torment and into the prison of eternal confinement.
10:14	And whoever is burned and destroyed from now on will be bound together with them until the consummation of generations.
10:15	Destroy all the spirits of the bastards and the sons of the Watchers, because they have wronged humankind.
10:16	And destroy all injustice from the earth, and let every wicked deed cease, and let the plant of righteousness and truth appear forever; it will be planted with joy.
10:17	And now all the righteous will escape, and they will live until they beget thousands, and all the days of their youth and their sabbaths they will complete in peace.
10:18	Then all the earth will be tilled in righteousness, and a tree will be planted in it, and it will be filled with blessing.
10:19	And all the trees of the earth will rejoice; it will be planted, and they will plant vines, and the vine that they plant will produce thousands of jars of wine, and for each measure of seed sown it will produce a thousand measures, and each measure of olives will produce ten baths.'
10:20	And you, cleanse the earth from all uncleanness and from all injustice and from all sin and impiety, and wipe out all the uncleanness that has come upon the earth.
10:21	And all the peoples will worship, and all will bless me and bow down.
10:22	And all the earth will be cleansed from all defilement and from all uncleanness and wrath and scourge, and I will never again send them upon them for all the generations of eternity.
11:1	And then I will open the storehouses of blessing that are in heaven, to bring them down upon the works, upon the toil of the sons of men.
11:2	And then truth and peace will unite together for all the days of eternity and for all the generations of humankind.
12:1	Before these words Enoch was taken, and no one of humankind knew where he was taken, and where he is, and what became of him.
12:2	And his activities were with the Watchers, and his days were with the holy ones.
12:3	And I, Enoch, was standing, blessing the Lord of majesty, the King of the ages. And behold, the Watchers of the Great Holy One called me:
12:4	'Enoch, scribe of righteousness, go and say to the Watchers of heaven, who have left the high heaven, the holy eternal sanctuary, and have defiled themselves with women, and do as the sons of the earth do, and have taken wives for themselves: "You have wrought great destruction upon the earth,
12:5	and you will have neither peace nor forgiveness." And concerning their sons in whom they rejoice,
12:6	they will see the slaughter of their beloved ones, and they will lament over the destruction of their sons, and they will make supplication forever, but they will have neither mercy nor peace.'
13:1	And Enoch said to Asael: 'Go; you will have no peace. A great judgment has gone forth against you to bind you,
13:2	and you will have no respite or petition on account of the wrongful deeds you revealed, and on account of all the works of impiety and unrighteousness and sin which you showed to humankind.'
13:3	Then I went and spoke to them all, and they were all afraid, and trembling and fear seized them.
13:4	And they asked me to write for them a memorial of petition that they might obtain forgiveness, and that I might read the memorial of their petition before the Lord of heaven, because they were no longer able to speak, nor to lift up their eyes to heaven for shame over the things for which they had sinned and were condemned.
13:6	Then I wrote the memorial of their petition and the supplications regarding their spirits and the things they were requesting, that they might obtain forgiveness and length of days.
13:7	And I went and sat down at the waters of Dan in the land of Dan, which is to the south of Hermon on the west; I was reading the memorial of their supplications.
13:8	When I fell asleep, behold, dreams came upon me and visions fell upon me, and I saw visions of wrath, and a voice came saying: 'Speak to the sons of heaven to rebuke them.'
13:9	And when I woke up, I went to them, and they were all sitting gathered together mourning at Ebelsata, which is between Lebanon and Senisel, with their faces covered.
13:10	before them, and I reported to them all the visions that I had seen in my sleep, and I began to speak the words of righteousness, rebuking the Watchers of heaven.
14:1	The book of the words of righteousness and of the rebuke of the Watchers who are from eternity, according to the command of the Great Holy One in this vision.
14:2	I saw in my sleep that which I now speak with a tongue of flesh and with the breath of my mouth, which the Great One has given to humans to speak with and to understand with the heart:
14:3	as he created and gave it to me to rebuke the Watchers, the sons of heaven.
14:4	'I wrote down your petition, you angels, and in my vision this was shown to me: your petition has not been accepted,
14:5	so that you will no longer ascend into heaven for all eternity, and the decree was spoken to bind you in the bonds of the earth for all the generations of eternity,
14:6	and that, prior to this, you will see the destruction of your beloved sons, and that you will have no pleasure in them, but they will fall before you by the sword.
14:7	And your petition on their behalf will not be granted, nor concerning yourselves; even though you weep and make supplication and speak no word from the writing which I wrote.'
14:8	And thus it was shown to me in the vision: behold, clouds in the vision were calling me, and mists were crying out to me, and the shooting stars and lightning flashes were hurrying me and driving me on, and winds in my vision made me fly upward,
14:9	and lifted me up and brought me into heaven; and I entered until I drew near to a wall built of hailstones and tongues of fire round about them; and they began to terrify me.
14:10	And I entered into the tongues of fire, and I drew near to a great house built of hailstones; and the walls of the house were like stone slabs, and they were all made of snow, and its floors were snowy,
14:11	and the ceilings were like shooting stars and lightnings, and between them were fiery cherubim, and their sky was water,
14:12	and a flaming fire surrounded the walls, and the doors burned with fire.
14:13	I entered into that house, hot as fire and cold as snow, and there was no nourishment of life in it; fear covered me, and trembling seized me.
14:14	And as I was shaking and trembling, I fell down. And I was gazing in my vision,
14:15	and behold, another door opened before me, and this house was greater than that one, and it was entirely built of tongues of fire,
14:16	and it excelled completely in glory and in honor and in majesty, so that I cannot describe to you its glory and its majesty.
14:17	Its floor was of fire, and its upper part was lightning and paths of the stars, and its ceiling was burning fire.
14:18	And I looked and saw a lofty throne, and its appearance was like crystal, and its wheel was like the shining sun, and the vision of cherubim.
14:19	And from beneath the throne issued rivers of flaming fire, and I was unable to look.
14:20	And the Great Glory sat upon it; his garment was like the appearance of the sun, brighter and whiter than any snow.
14:21	And no angel was able to enter into this house and look upon his face because of the magnificence and glory, and no flesh was able to look upon him.
14:22	The fire flamed round about; and a great fire stood beside him, and no one came near him. Round about him stood ten thousand times ten thousand before him, and his every word was an act.
14:23	And the holy ones of the angels who drew near to him do not depart by night nor do they leave him.
14:24	And until then I was cast upon my face and trembling, and the Lord called me with his mouth and said to me, “Come here, Enoch, and hear my word.”
14:25	And one of the holy ones approached me, raised me up, made me stand, and brought me as far as the door; but I bowed my face downward.
15:1	And answering he said to me, “The true man, a man of truth, the scribe!” and I heard his voice: “Do not fear, Enoch, righteous man and scribe of truth; come here, and hear my voice.
15:2	Go and say to those who sent you, ‘You ought to petition on behalf of human beings, and not human beings on your behalf.
15:3	Why did you leave the high, holy, eternal heaven, and lie with women, and defile yourselves with the daughters of men, and take wives for yourselves? You have acted like the sons of the earth and fathered children for yourselves, sons who are giants.
15:4	Though you were holy, living, eternal spirits, you defiled yourselves with the blood of women, and fathered children in the blood of flesh, and lusted in the blood of men, just as they do—flesh and blood, who die and perish.
15:5	Therefore I gave them females, so that they might sow seed in them and bear children by them in this way, so that no work might be lacking to them upon the earth.
15:6	But you were living, eternal spirits, not dying for all the generations of the age.
15:7	And therefore I did not make females among you; the spirits of heaven, in heaven is their dwelling.’
15:8	And now, the giants who were born from spirits and flesh [shall be called] strong spirits upon the earth, and upon the earth shall be their dwelling.
15:9	Evil spirits have come forth from their bodies, because they were born from the beings above, and from the holy Watchers is the beginning of their creation and primal foundation; evil spirits they shall be called.
15:10	The spirits of heaven, in heaven shall be their dwelling; and the spirits born upon the earth, upon the earth shall be their dwelling.
15:11	And the spirits of the giants, harmful clouds, destroying and attacking and wrestling and casting down upon the earth, harsh spirits of giants, making courses and eating nothing, but fasting and thirsting and causing stumbling, these spirits...
15:12	And they will rise up against the sons of men and against the women, because they have come forth from them,
16:1	from the day of slaughter and destruction and death, from which the spirits going out from the soul of their flesh shall be destroying without judgment; thus they will destroy until the day of completion, of the great judgment, in which the great age shall be consummated.
16:2	And now to the Watchers who sent you to petition on their behalf, who were formerly in heaven:
16:3	‘You were in heaven, and every mystery had not yet been revealed to you, but a mystery which originated from God you knew, and this you made known to the women in your hardness of heart; and through this mystery females and men multiply evils upon the earth.’
16:4	Say to them therefore: ‘You have no peace.’
17:1	And taking me, they brought me away to a certain place, in which those who were there become like flaming fire, and whenever they wish, appear like human beings.
17:2	And they brought me away to a dark place and to a mountain whose summit reached into heaven.
17:3	And I saw the place of the luminaries and the treasuries of the stars and of the thunders, and into the airy depths, where the bow of fire and the arrows and their quivers and all the lightnings were.
17:4	And they brought me away as far as the waters of life and as far as the fire of the west, which provides all the settings of the sun.
17:5	And we came as far as a river of fire, in which the fire runs down like water and flows into a great sea of the west.
17:6	I saw the great rivers, and I arrived as far as the great river and as far as the great darkness, and I went away to where all flesh walks.
17:7	I saw the winter winds of darkness and the pouring out of the abyss of all waters.
17:8	I saw the mouth of the earth of all the rivers and the mouth of the abyss.
18:1	I saw the treasuries of all the winds; I saw that with them he ordered all the creations and the foundation of the earth, and I saw the cornerstone of the earth.
18:2	I saw the four winds supporting the earth,
18:3	and the firmament of heaven, and they stand between earth and heaven.
18:4	I saw the winds of the heavens turning and steering the disk of the sun, and all the stars. I saw the winds upon the earth bearing [it] in a cloud. I saw the ends of the earth, the support of heaven above.
18:6	I passed by and saw a place burning night and day, where the seven mountains were of precious stones, [three] facing toward the east and three facing toward the south.
18:7	And those toward the east were of colored stone, and one was of pearl stone, and one of tathen stone, and the one toward the south was of reddish stone;
18:8	and the middle one among them reached to heaven, like the throne of God, of alabaster stone, and the summit of the throne was of sapphire stone;
18:9	and I saw burning fire. And beyond these mountains
18:10	is a place, the end of the great earth; there the heavens will be brought to an end.
18:11	And I saw a great chasm among the columns of fire descending, and there was no measure, neither in depth nor in height.
18:12	And beyond this chasm I saw a place where there was neither firmament of heaven above, nor earth founded beneath it, nor water under it, nor bird, but the place was desolate and fearful.
18:13	There I saw seven stars like great burning mountains, and as I inquired concerning them,
18:14	the angel said, “This is the place, the end of heaven and earth; this has become a prison for the stars and the host of heaven.
18:15	And the stars that roll in the fire, these are they that transgressed the command of the Lord at the beginning of their rising—for the place outside of heaven is empty—because they did not come out at their appointed times.”
18:16	And he became angry with them and bound them until the time of the completion of their sin, ten thousand years.
19:1	And Uriel said to me, “Here the angels who mingled with women shall stand, and their spirits, assuming many forms, defile human beings and will lead them astray to sacrifice to demons until the great judgment, in which they shall be judged unto completion.
19:2	And their wives, of the transgressing angels, shall become sirens.”
19:3	And I, Enoch, alone saw the visions, the ends of all things; and not one
20:1	Angels of the powers.
20:2	Uriel,
20:3	Raphael, one of the holy angels, who is over the spirits of humans;
20:4	Raguel, one of the holy angels, who takes vengeance on the world of the luminaries;
20:5	Michael, one of the holy angels,
20:6	Sariel, one of the holy angels, who is over the spirits who sin in the spirit;
20:7	Gabriel, one of the holy angels, who is over paradise and the serpents and
21:1	And I proceeded
21:2	And there
21:3	And there I beheld
21:4	Then I said, "For what cause were they bound, and on account of
21:5	Then
21:6	"These are of the stars of heaven that transgressed the commandment of the Lord, and were bound here until the
21:7	And from there I traveled to another place, more fearful than this one, and I beheld fearful works:
21:8	Then I said, "How fearful is this place,
21:9	Then he answered me,
21:10	And he said, "This place is the prison of the angels; here they will be kept confined forever and ever."
22:1	And from there I traveled to another place, and he showed me toward the west another mountain, great and high, of hard rock.
22:2	And there were four hollow places in it, deep and very smooth, three of them dark and one bright, and a spring of water was in the midst of it. And I said, "How smooth are these hollows, and utterly deep and dark to look upon!"
22:3	Then Raphael answered, one of the holy angels who was with me, and said to me, "These hollow places are that the spirits of the souls of the dead may be gathered into them. For this very purpose they were set apart, that all the souls of human beings should be gathered here."
22:4	And these places were made for their confinement until the day of their judgment and until the appointed period and appointed time in which the great judgment will be upon them."
22:5	I beheld dead human beings making petition, and his voice proceeded as far as heaven and made petition.
22:6	And I asked Raphael, the angel who was with me, and said to him, "Whose spirit is this that makes petition, whose voice thus goes forth and makes petition as far as heaven?"
22:7	And he answered me, saying, "This is the spirit that came forth from Abel, whom Cain his brother killed, and Abel makes petition concerning him until his seed is destroyed from the face of the earth, and his seed is wiped out from the seed of humankind."
22:8	Then I asked concerning all the hollow places, "Why are they separated one from another?"
22:9	And he answered me, saying, "These three were made that the spirits of the dead might be separated; and thus it has been set apart for the spirits of the righteous, where the spring of bright water is;
22:10	and thus it was created for sinners, when they die and are buried in the earth, and judgment was not executed upon them in their lifetime.
22:11	Here their spirits are separated in this great torment, until the great day of judgment, of scourges and torments of the accursed forever; there is the retribution of their spirits; there he will bind them forever.
22:12	And thus it has been separated for the spirits of those who make petition, who make declaration concerning destruction, when they were slain in the days of the sinners.
22:13	And thus it was created for the spirits of humans who will not be pious but sinners, and will be partners with the lawless. But as for their spirits, because those who were afflicted here are punished less than they, they will not be punished on the day of judgment, nor will they be raised from here."
22:14	Then I blessed the Lord of glory and said, "Blessed are you, Lord of righteousness, who rule forever."
23:1	And from there I traveled to another place toward the west, to the ends of the earth.
23:2	And I beheld a fire running through and not resting nor ceasing from its course, but continuing day and night alike.
23:3	And I asked, saying, "What is this that has no rest?"
23:4	Then Raguel answered me, one of the holy angels who was with me, "This course of fire—the fire toward the west—is that which pursues all the luminaries of heaven."
24:1	And he showed me mountains of fire burning by night.
24:2	And I went beyond them and beheld seven mountains, all glorious, each differing from the other, whose stones were precious in beauty, and all of them precious and glorious and fair in appearance—three standing toward the east, one upon the other, and three toward the south, one upon the other, and deep and rugged ravines, not approaching one another;
24:3	and a seventh mountain in the midst of these, and it excelled in height, resembling the seat of a throne, and beautiful trees surrounded it.
24:4	And there was among them a tree such as I had never smelled, and no other was gladdened by it, and no other was like it; it had a fragrance more fragrant than all spices, and its leaves and its flower and the tree never wither forever, and its fruit was like clusters of dates.
24:5	Then I said, "How beautiful is this tree and fragrant, and lovely are its leaves, and its flowers are lovely to look upon!"
24:6	Then Michael answered me, one of the holy angels who was with me—and he was the leader of them—
25:1	and said to me, "Enoch, why do you ask and why did you marvel at the fragrance of the tree, and why do you wish to learn the truth?"
25:2	Then I answered him, "I wish to know about everything, but especially and exceedingly about this tree."
25:3	And he answered, saying, "This high mountain, whose summit is like the throne of God, is the seat where the Great Lord, the Holy One of Glory, the Eternal King, sits when he comes down to visit the earth in goodness.
25:4	And as for this fragrant tree, no flesh has authority to touch it until the great judgment, in which there is vengeance upon all and consummation forever; then it shall be given to the righteous and holy.
25:5	Its fruit shall be for life for the elect toward the north, and it shall be transplanted in the holy place, beside the house of God, the Eternal King.
25:6	Then they will rejoice with rejoicing and be glad, and they will enter into the sanctuary; its fragrances will be in their bones, and they will live a longer life on earth than your fathers lived, and in their days neither torments nor plagues nor scourges will touch them."
25:7	Then I blessed the God of glory, the Eternal King, who prepared such things for righteous humans, and created them and promised to give them to them.
26:1	And from there I traveled to the middle of the earth, and I saw a blessed place with cuttings.
26:2	And there I beheld a holy mountain; beneath the mountain was water from the east, and it flowed toward the south.
26:3	And I saw toward the east another mountain higher than this one, and between them a deep ravine, having no breadth, and through it water proceeded beneath the mountain.
26:4	And toward the west of this was another mountain, lower than it and having no height, and a deep and dry ravine between them, and another deep and dry ravine at the ends of the three mountains.
26:5	and all had a deep ravine of hard rock, and no tree was planted upon them.
26:6	And I marveled concerning the ravine, and I marveled exceedingly.
27:1	And I said: "Why is this land blessed and all full of trees, but this ravine is accursed?"
27:2	This accursed valley is for those who are accursed forever. Here shall be gathered together all the accursed who speak with their mouth an improper word against the Lord, and speak harsh things concerning his glory. Here they shall be gathered together, and here shall be their dwelling place.
27:3	In the last times, in the days of the true judgment in the presence of the righteous forever, here the impious shall bless the Lord of glory, the eternal King.
27:4	In the days of their judgment they shall bless in mercy, according as he allotted to them.
27:5	Then I blessed the Lord of glory, and I proclaimed his glory and praised him magnificently.
28:1	And from there I went into the midst of Mandobara, and I saw it desolate; and it alone
28:2	was full of trees, and water was flowing like a downpour from above from the seeds,
28:3	like an abundant aqueduct that brings up water and dew from all sides toward the north and to the west.
29:1	From there I went to another place in Babdera, and I went toward the east of this mountain,
29:2	and I saw trees of judgment breathing fragrant odors of frankincense and myrrh, and their trees were like nut trees.
30:1	And beyond these I went far toward the east, and I saw another great place, a ravine of water,
30:2	in which were also trees having the color of fragrant spices like the mastic tree,
30:3	and along the edges of these ravines I saw fragrant cinnamon; and beyond these I went toward the east.
31:1	And I saw other mountains, and in them were groves of trees, and flowing forth from them was nectar called sarran and galbanum.
31:2	And beyond these mountains I saw another mountain toward the east of the ends of the earth, and all the trees were full of bark in the likeness of almonds,
31:3	when they are rubbed; wherefore it was more fragrant than all spices.
32:1	[After these spices,] looking toward the north to the east, I beheld seven mountains full of choice nard and mastic and cinnamon and pepper.
32:2	And from there I passed over the summits of all these mountains, far away toward the east of the earth, and I crossed over the Red Sea and went far from it, and from there I passed above Zotiel.
32:3	And I came to the Paradise of Righteousness, and I saw from afar beyond those trees many large trees—two especially there, exceedingly great, beautiful, glorious, and magnificent—and the tree of wisdom, of whose fruit the holy ones eat and learn great wisdom.
32:4	That tree is like a fir in height, and its leaves are like the carob tree, and its fruit is like clusters of the vine, very cheerful, and its fragrance spread far from the tree.
32:5	Then I said: "How beautiful is the tree, and how pleasing to the sight!"
32:6	Then Raphael, the holy angel who was with me, answered: "This is the tree of wisdom, from which your father ate . . ."
77:7	... the] Red S[ea ...
77:8	... ] into the [ ... ] much [ ... ] sea [ ... ] the Red S[ea ...
78:1	... ] call[ ...
78:8	... ] day of the[ ... ] and in the [ ... ] of the whole [ ... ] day of [ ... ] and [ ... sev]enth heav[en ...
85:10	... and . . . [ ... ] of the other [ ...
86:1	... ] looking up [ ... ] in sleep I saw the [ ... ] and I was watching [ ... ] from heaven [ ... ] of the great [ ... ]
86:2	... ] the [ ... ] the pasture [ ... ] and they bega[n ...
87:1	... ] another [ ... ] began all [ ...
87:2	... ] looking up [ ... ] into heaven [ ... in a] vision, and be[hold . . . ] from heaven [ ...
87:3	... ] of my hand [ ... ] of the sons of the [ ...
89:42	And the dogs began to devour the sheep, and the boars and the foxes devoured them, until the Lord of the sheep raised up one ram from among the sheep.
89:43	And this ram began to butt and pursue with his horns, and he hurled himself against the foxes, and after them against the boars; and he destroyed many boars, and after them [...] the dogs.
89:44	And the sheep whose eyes were opened beheld the ram that was among the sheep, until he abandoned his way and began to walk in a pathless way.
89:45	And the Lord of the sheep sent this lamb to another lamb, to establish him as a ram over the flock instead of the ram that had abandoned his way.
89:46	And he went to him and spoke to him quietly in private, and raised him up to be a ram and a ruler and a leader of the sheep; and during all these things the dogs were afflicting the sheep.
89:47	[And] the first ram pursued the second ram, and he fled from his presence; then I watched the first ram until he fell before the dogs.
89:48	And the second ram leapt up and took the lead of the sheep.
89:49	And the sheep grew and multiplied; and all the dogs and the foxes fled from him and feared him . . .
97:1	. . .
97:2	In that time it shall be burned up
97:3	And now I say to you, sons of men: Great wrath is against you, against your sons; and this wrath will not cease from you until the time of the slaughter of your sons.
97:4	And your beloved ones will perish and your honored ones will die from all the earth, because all the days of their life from now on will not be more than one hundred and twenty years.
97:5	And do not expect to live any longer for more years; for there is no way of escape for them from now on, because of the wrath with which the King of all the ages has been enraged against you; do not think that you will escape these things.
97:6	...[and all] the words of your iniquities [will be read] be[fore] the Great Holy One to your face;
97:7	Woe to you, sinners [who] are in the midst of the sea and upon the dry land; an evil memorial is against you.
97:8	Woe to you who acquire gold and silver not from righteousness, and you say, 'We have become rich with wealth and have possessed property and acquired possessions,
97:9	and everything we desire we will do, for we have stored up silver in our treasuries and many goods in our houses.'
97:10	And like water
98:1	And now I swear to you, the wise, and
98:2	For men will put on adornment like women, [and] beautiful color beyond virgins, in royalty and greatness and in authority. And silver and gold will be for food [among] them, and in their houses they will be poured out like water,
98:3	[...]
98:4	...[was not sent] upon the [earth, but] humans [created it] from themselves, [and to] a great [curse] those who do [it] will come.
98:5	And
98:6	I swear to you, sinners, by the Great Holy One, that your evil deeds will be revealed in heaven; no unjust deed of yours will be concealed.
98:7	Do not assume in your soul nor suppose in your heart that they do not know or see, nor think that your wrongs are not seen, nor that they are not written down before the Most High.
98:8	From [now] on know that all your wrongful deeds are written down day by [day] until the day of your judgment.
98:9	Woe to you, foolish ones, for you will perish because of your folly, and you will not listen to the [wise], and good things will not happen to you, but evils
98:10	And now know th[at it is prepared] for you for the day of destruction. [Do not hop]e to be saved, sinners; g[o and] die, knowin[g that it is prepared] for the day of gr[eat] judgment [and] greater dist[ress for your spirits.]
98:11	Woe to you, stubborn of heart, doing evil and eating blood; from whe]nce will there b[e good things for you that you may eat...
98:12	...deeds o]f injustice; why [do you have go]od hopes for yourselves? Now let it be known to you that you will be handed over into the [hands o]f the righteous, and they will kill you and will not spare you.
98:13	Woe to you who rejoice over the afflictions of the righteous;
98:14	Woe to you who desire to invalidate the words of the righteous; there will be no hope of salvation for you.
98:15	Woe to you who write lying words and words of error; they write and will lead many astray with their lies;
98:16	you yourselves go astray, and you will have no cause to rejoice, but will quickly perish.
99:1	Woe to you who commit errors, and receive honor and glory by deceptive deeds; you have perished, there is no salvation for good for you.
99:2	Woe to you who alter the true words and distort the eternal covenant, and reckon yourselves sinless; they will be swallowed up in the earth.
99:3	Then prepare yourselves, righteous ones, and present your petitions for a memorial, offer them in testimony before the angels, that they may bring the sins of the unrighteous before the Most High God for a memorial;
99:4	and then they will be thrown into confu[sion] on the [day] of the destruction of injustice.
99:5	At that very [sea]son, those who give birth will cast out and
99:7	[...] who carve image[s of silve]r and gold, and of wood [and of stone] and of clay, and worshi[p phan]tasms and demon[ic pheno]mena and evi[l] spirits, [... and in] all errors not according to kno[wledge...] and no help will be found [from] them.
99:8	And they will go astray in the folly of their heart, and the visions of dreams will lead you astray,
99:9	you and your false works which you have made and fabricated, and all at once you will perish.
99:10	And then blessed are all who hear the words of the wise and learn them, to do the commandments of the Most High, and will walk in the paths of his righteousness and will not go astray with those who lead astray, and they will be saved . . .
99:13	Woe to those who build their buildings not from their own labors, and from stones and bricks you make every building,
99:14	Woe to those who despise the foundation and the eternal inheritance of their fathers, [for] a spirit of error will pursue you; there is no rest for you.
99:15	Woe to you who practice [lawlessness] and aid [unrighteousness, murdering] their neighbor [until the] day of the [great] judgment;
99:16	for then he will wipe out [your] glory and will arouse [his] wrath [against] you; he will destroy all of [you with the] sword, and all the [righteous will remember your] unrighteous deeds.
100:1	. . . and then in one place . . .
100:2	and a man] will not [withhold his hand from] his son, [nor from] his beloved so as to kill him, nor the sinner from the honorable one, nor from his brother; from dawn until the sun sets they will slaughter one another.
100:3	And a horse will walk up to its breast through the blood of the sinners, and the chariot will sink up to the axles.
100:4	And angels will descend, plunging into the hidden places on that day—those who aided unrighteousness; and they will be gathered together into one place, and the Most High
100:5	and he will set a guard of the holy angels over all the righteous and holy, and they will be guarded as the apple of the eye until evils and sin come to an end. And from then on the pious will sleep a sweet sleep, and there will no longer be anyone to terrify them.
100:6	Then the wise among people will see, and the children of the earth will understand these words of this epistle, and
100:7	Woe to you, the unrighteous, when you oppress the righteous on the day of harsh distress and burn them in fire, for you will receive according to your deeds.
100:8	Woe to you, hard-hearted ones, who keep watch to devise evil; fear encompasses you, and there is no one to help you.
100:9	Woe to all of you sinners for the works of your mouth! Woe to all of you sinners for the words of your mouth and for the [works] of your hands, because you have strayed from the holy deeds . . .
100:11	. . . every cloud and mist and dew and rain . . . because of your sins.
100:12	Give gifts, therefore, to the rain, so that it may not [be prevented from] coming down to you, and to the dew and [the cloud] and the mist; pay gold [that] they may descend;
100:13	for if [snow] and frost and its cold fall upon you, and their winds and their ice, and all their plagues, you will not be able to stand before the cold and their plagues.
101:1	Consider, then, children of men, the works of the Most High, and be afraid to do evil before him.
101:2	If he closes the windows of heaven and prevents the dew and the rain from descending on your account, what will you do?
101:3	If he sends his wrath upon you and upon your works, will you not be entreating him? Why do you speak with your mouth great and hard things against his majesty?
101:4	Look at the shipmasters who sail the sea, whose ships are tossed by the wave and storm,
101:5	and being storm-tossed, they are all afraid, and out...
101:6	Is not the whole sea and [all] its waters the work of the Most [High], and did he not establish their limits, and bind it, [and] enclose it with sand?
101:7	[And at] his rebuke [they are afraid and dry] up, and the fish . . .
101:8	. . . [earth] and all that is in them? And who gave understanding to all that move in the sea? The shipmasters fear the sea.
102:1	And when he casts upon you the wave of the fire of your burning, where will you flee to be saved? And when he lifts his voice against you,
102:2	[...]
102:3	And the angels will accomplish what was commanded them, and heaven and the luminaries will shake and tremble; all the children of the earth, and you sinners, are cursed forever; there is no peace for you.
102:4	Take courage, souls of the righteous who have died, the righteous and the pious,
102:5	and do not grieve that your souls went down to Hades with sorrow, and that your body of flesh was not repaid in your life according to your piety, since the days in which you lived were days of sinners and of the cursed upon the earth.
102:6	When you die, then the sinners will say: 'The pious have died according to fate, and what advantage did they have from their deeds?
102:7	And they died just like us. See, then, how they die in grief and darkness, and what advantage did they have?
102:8	From now on let them arise and be saved, and let them see us eating and drinking forever!'
102:9	'Therefore, let us plunder and sin and rob and acquire wealth and [see] good days!'
102:10	See, then, you who justify [yourselves], what kind of end was theirs, that no righteousness was found in them until they died and perished,
102:11	and they became as though they were not, and their souls went down with pain into Hades . . .
103:1	I swear to you . . .
103:2	I know this mystery; for I have read the tablets of heaven and seen the holy writing; and I have understood what is written on them and engraved concerning you:
103:3	that good things and joy and honor have been prepared and written down for the souls of those
103:4	and
103:5	And you, the dead of the sinners, when you die, they will say concerning you: ‘Blessed are the sinners all their days which they have seen in their life! And they have died in glory,
103:6	and judgment was not executed in their life.’
103:7	You yourselves know that they will bring your souls down to Hades,
103:8	and there they will be in great distress and in darkness and in a snare and in a burning flame; and your souls will enter into great judgment for all the generations of the age. Woe to you, there is no joy for you!
103:9	For do not say, you righteous who are pious in life: ‘In the days of distress we have laboured with toils, and we have been consumed and become few, and we have not found a helper;
103:10	we have been crushed and destroyed, and we have despaired and no longer know salvation day after day.
103:11	We hoped to become the head, but we became the tail; we laboured working, and we had no control over our wages. We became food for sinners, and the lawless made their yoke heavy upon us.
103:12	Those who rule over us, our enemies, goad us and enclose us; we sought where to flee from them so that we might find rest . . .
103:14	. . . we cried out against those who cast us down and did violence to us, but they did not accept our petitions, nor were they willing to listen to our voice.
103:15	And they did not help us, finding nothing against those who do violence to us and devour us, but they strengthen them against us; they killed us and reduced us to few. And they make no disclosure concerning our slain, and they do not bring to remembrance the sins of those sinners.’
104:1	I swear to you that the angels in heaven remember you for good before the glory of the Great One.
104:2	Be of good courage, then, because you have grown old in evils and in tribulations; like the lights of heaven you will shine and appear, and the windows of heaven will be opened to you,
104:3	and your cry will be heard, and your judgment for which you cry will appear, in that help will be given to you concerning your tribulation, and from all who took part with those who do violence to you and devour you . . .
104:5	[Do not fear] evils on the day of the great judgment, and you will not be found like the sinners. [But you, sinners,] will be troubled, and eternal judgment from you will be for all the generations of the ages.
104:6	Do not fear, you righteous, when you see the sinners prevailing and prospering, and do not become their partners, but keep far away from all their wrongdoings.
104:7	For do not say, you sinners: ‘Our sins will not be searched out in the course of days.’
104:8	And now I show you that light and darkness, day and night, oversee all your sins.
104:9	Do not be led astray in your heart, nor lie, nor alter the words of truth, nor speak falsely against the [words of the] Holy One, and do not give praise to your [idols]; for [all lies] and all [error] do not lead to righteousness . . .
104:10	. . . of the truth the sinners alter and copy out, and they lead many astray, and lie and invent great fabrications and write scriptures in their own names.
104:11	And would that they would write all my words in truth in their names, and neither take away nor alter anything of these words, but write all things in truth which I testify to them!
104:12	And again I know a second mystery, that to the righteous and pious and wise my books will be given for the joy of truth,
104:13	and they will believe in them and rejoice in them, and all the righteous will be glad to learn from them all the ways of truth.
105:1	. . .
106:1	And after a time, Methuselah took a wife for my son, and she bore a son, and he called his name Lamech. Righteousness was brought low until that day. And when he reached maturity, he took a wife for him, and she bore him a child.
106:2	And when the child was born, his body was whiter than snow and redder than a rose, all his hair was white and like white wool, and curly and glorious. And when he opened his eyes, the house shone like the sun.
106:3	And he stood up from the hands of the midwife and opened his mouth and blessed the Lord.
106:4	And Lamech was afraid of him and fled and came to Methuselah his father, and said to him,
106:5	‘A child has been born to me, strange, not like human beings but like the children of the angels of heaven; and his appearance is different, not like ours; his eyes are like the rays of the sun, and his face is glorious;
106:6	and I suppose that he is not from me but from an angel; and I am afraid of him lest something happen in his days upon the earth.
106:7	And I entreat you, father, and beg you: go to Enoch [our father and ask] . . .’
106:8	. . . he came to me at the ends of the earth where he then saw me to be, and said to me, ‘My father, hear my voice and come to me.’ And I heard his voice and came to him and said, ‘Behold, here I am, child; why have you come to me, child?’
106:9	And he answered, saying, ‘Because of a great need I have come here, father.’
106:10	‘And now a child has been born to Lamech my son, and his form and his image {are not like human beings, and his complexion is} whiter than snow and redder than a rose, and the hair of his head is whiter than white wool, and his eyes are like the rays of the sun,
106:11	And he rose up from the hands of the midwife, and opening his mouth, he blessed the Lord of eternity.
106:12	And my son Lamech was afraid, and he fled to me, and he does not believe that he is his son, but that [he is] from the angels . . . the exactness and the truth which you possess.
106:13	Then I answered, saying: “The Lord will renew a decree upon the earth, and in the same manner, my child, I have seen and made known to you; for in the generation of Jared my father, they transgressed the word of the Lord from the covenant of heaven.
106:14	And behold, they sin and transgress the custom, and they cohabit with women and sin with them, and have taken wives from among them, and they beget [offspring] not like spirits, but fleshly.
106:15	And there will be great wrath upon the earth and a flood, and there will be great destruction for one year.
106:16	And this child who has been born will be left, and his three children will be saved when those upon the earth die.
106:18	And now tell Lamech: ‘He is truly and holily your child, [and] call his name [Noah]; for he will be a remnant for you upon whom you will find rest, he and his sons, from the corruption of the earth, and from all the sinners, and from all the consummations upon the earth . . .’
106:19	he showed me and made known to me, and I read them on the tablets of heaven.
107:1	Then I beheld the things written upon them, that generation will be worse than generation, and I saw this until a generation of righteousness arises, and wickedness perishes, and sin is removed from the earth, and good things come upon the earth unto them.
107:2	And now run, my child, and tell Lamech your son that this child who has been born is truly his child, and not falsely.”
107:3	And when Methuselah heard the words of Enoch his father—for he revealed them to him in a mystery—[he returned and made them known to him.] And his name was called Noah, gladdening the earth from destruction.
