1:1	The word of the blessing of Enoch, with which he blessed the chosen and the righteous who will be present on the day of tribulation, to remove all the wicked and ungodly.
1:2	And Enoch answered and said: A righteous man from God, whose eyes were open and who sees a vision of the Holy One in heaven, which the angels showed me. And I heard everything from them, and I understood what I saw, though not for this generation, but for remote generations that are to come.
1:3	Concerning the chosen I spoke, and I uttered a parable concerning them: The Holy One will come forth, and the Great One, from his dwelling,
1:4	and the eternal God; and from there he will tread upon Mount Sinai, and appear with his host, and appear in the strength of his power from heaven.
1:5	And all will fear, and the Watchers will tremble, and fear and great trembling will seize them great unto the ends of the earth.
1:6	And the high mountains will be shaken, and the high hills will be brought low, and will melt like wax before the flame.
1:7	And it will be submerged, the earth, and everything that is upon the earth will perish, and there will be judgment upon all,
1:8	and upon all the righteous. But for the righteous he will make peace, and he will protect the chosen, and mercy will be upon them; and they will all belong to God, and they will prosper, and they will be blessed, and the light of God will shine upon them.
1:9	And behold, he comes with ten thousands of holy ones, to execute judgment upon them, and to destroy the ungodly, and to convict all flesh concerning everything that sinners and ungodly have done and committed against him.
2:1	Observe all the work in heaven, how the lights in heaven do not alter their paths, how each rises and sets, each appointed in its season, and they do not transgress their command.
2:2	Look at the earth, and consider the work that is done upon it from the beginning to the end, how none of the works of God alters as it becomes visible.
2:3	Look at the summer and the winter, how the whole earth is filled with water, and cloud and dew and rain rest upon it.
3:1	Observe and see how all the trees appear as withered, and all their leaves are fallen, except for fourteen trees that do not shed their leaves, which wait with the old until the new comes, for two or three winters.
4:1	And again observe the days of summer, how the sun is above it, over against it; and you seek shade and shelter because of the heat of the sun, and the earth also burns with scorching heat, and you are not able to tread upon the earth or upon the rock because of its heat.
5:1	Observe how the trees cover themselves with green leaves and bear fruit; and understand concerning everything, and know how he who lives forever made all of them for you,
5:2	and his works are before him year by year as they happen, and all his works serve him and do not alter, but just as he ordained, God, so is everything done.
5:3	And see how the seas and the rivers likewise accomplish their tasks.
5:4	But you, you have not persevered, and you have not kept the commandment of the Lord, but you have transgressed and spoken slanderously, great and hard words with your unclean mouth against his greatness; you hard-hearted, you will have no peace.
5:5	And therefore you will curse your days, and the years of your life will perish, and eternal cursing will increase, and you will find no mercy.
5:6	And in those days you will make your peace an eternal curse unto all the righteous, and you shall be cursed by sinners continually; and you, together with the sinners,
5:7	and for the elect there will be light and joy and peace, and they will inherit the earth; but for you, the ungodly, there will be a curse.
5:8	And then wisdom will be given to the elect, and they will all live and will not commit sin again, neither through godlessness nor through pride, but those who have wisdom will be humble.
5:9	And they will not sin again, nor will they be condemned all the days of their life, and they will not die by plague or by wrath; but they will complete the number of the days of their life, and their life will grow in peace, and the years of their joy will increase in gladness and in peace forever, through all the days of their life.
6:1	And it came to pass, when the children of men had multiplied in those days, that beautiful daughters were born to them, and comely.
6:2	And the angels, the children of heaven, saw them and lusted after them, and said to one another, "Come, let us choose wives for ourselves from the children of men, and let us beget children for ourselves."
6:3	And Semyaza, who was their leader, said to them, "I fear that perhaps you will not want this deed to be done, and I alone shall pay the penalty for this great sin."
6:4	And they all answered him and said, "Let us all swear an oath, and bind ourselves by mutual curses, that we will not change this plan, but execute this plan in deed."
6:5	Then they all swore together, and bound themselves by mutual curses upon it.
6:6	And they were in all two hundred, and they descended upon Ardis, which is the summit of Mount Hermon; and they called it Mount Hermon, because they had sworn upon it and bound themselves by mutual curses.
6:7	And these are the names of their chiefs: Semyaza, who was their leader, Urakibarameel, Akibeel, Tamiel, Ramuel, Danel, Ezeqeel, Saraquyal, Asael, Armaros, Batarael, Ananel, Zaqeel, Samsapeel, Satarel, Turel, Yomyael, Arazyal.
6:8	These are their chiefs of the two hundred angels,
7:1	and all the others with them; and they took for themselves wives, each choosing for himself one; and they began to go in to them and to defile themselves with them, and they taught them sorceries and incantations, and the cutting of roots, and made them acquainted with plants.
7:2	And they became pregnant and bore giants, great ones, whose height was each three thousand cubits.
7:3	These consumed all the labor of men, until men could no longer sustain them.
7:4	And they turned, the giants, against them, to devour mankind.
7:5	And they began to sin against birds, and against beasts, and against reptiles, and against fish, and to devour one another's flesh, and drink the blood from it.
7:6	Then the earth laid accusation against the lawless ones.
8:1	And Azazel taught men to make swords, and daggers, and shields, and breastplates of the chest, and showed them what was after them and their craftsmanship: bracelets, and ornaments, and the use of antimony, and the beautifying of the eyelids, and every kind of precious stone, stones, costly and select, and all kinds of colored dyes, and the alteration of the world.
8:2	And there arose godlessness, great and much fornication; and they went astray, and all their ways became corrupted.
8:3	Amazarak taught all the sorcerers and root-cutters; Armaros resolved sorceries; and Baraqiel [taught] the astrologers, and Kokabel the signs, and Tamiel taught the viewing of the stars, and Asradel taught the course of the moon.
8:4	And at the destruction of men, they cried out, and their voice reached heaven.
9:1	And then Michael, Gabriel, Suriel, and Uriel looked down from heaven and saw much blood being shed upon the earth, and all the lawlessness being done upon the earth.
9:2	And they said to one another, “The voice of their crying: the desolate earth cries out up to the gates of heaven.”
9:3	“And now to you, holy ones of heaven, the souls of men make suit, saying, ‘Bring our judgment before the Most High,’
9:4	to their Lord the King. For he is Lord of lords and God of gods, and King of kings; and the throne of his glory is unto all the generations of eternity; and your name is holy and glorious unto all the generations of eternity, and blessed and glorious!
9:5	You made all things, and power over all is with you, and everything is uncovered and manifest before you; and you see all things, and there is nothing that can be hidden from you.
9:6	See then what Asazel has done, how he taught all unrighteousness upon the earth, and revealed the eternal secrets that are done in heaven, and made known sorceries.
9:7	And Shemihazah, to whom you gave authority to judge his associates together.
9:8	And they went to the daughters of men together, and slept with them, with those women, and defiled themselves, and revealed to them these sins.
9:9	And the women bore giants, and thereby the whole earth was filled with blood and unrighteousness.
9:10	And now behold, they cry out, the souls of those who have died, and they make suit up to the gate of heaven; and has ascended their groaning, and they are unable to go out from before the face of the unrighteousness which is done upon the earth.
9:11	And you know all things before they come to pass, and you know this and their deeds, yet you say nothing to us; what ought we to do to them concerning this?"
10:1	Then the Most High, the Great and Holy One spoke, and sent Arsyalalyur to the son of Lamech, saying to him:
10:2	"Say to him in my name: 'Hide yourself!' and reveal to him the end that is approaching, for shall be destroyed the whole earth, and a deluge of water is about to come upon the whole earth, and will destroy everything that is upon it.
10:3	And now instruct him that he may escape, and that his seed may remain for all the earth."
10:4	And the Lord said again to Raphael: "Bind Azazel hand and foot, and cast him into the darkness; and make an opening in the desert that is in Dudael, and cast him therein.
10:5	And place upon him stones rough and sharp, and cover him with darkness; and let him dwell there forever, and cover his face that he may not see the light.
10:6	And on the great day of judgment, that he may be cast into the fire.
10:7	And heal the earth, which the angels have corrupted, and proclaim the healing of the earth, that I may heal the earth, and that not all the children of men may perish through all the mystery that the Watchers disclosed and taught to their sons.
10:8	And the whole earth was corrupted through the teaching of the works of Azazel; and against him write down all sin."
10:9	And to Gabriel the Lord said: "Go against the bastards and the reprobates, and against the children of fornication; and destroy the children of fornication and the children of the Watchers from among men; send them forth, and set them against one another, that they themselves in battle may perish; for length of days they have not.
10:10	And they all will entreat you, but nothing shall be granted to their fathers on their behalf; for they hope to live an eternal life, and that each one of them may live five hundred years."
10:11	And to Michael the Lord said: "Go, make known to Shemihazah and to the others who are with him, who united with women, that they might defile themselves with them in all their uncleanness.
10:12	When all their sons have slain one another, and when they have seen the destruction of their beloved ones, bind them for seventy generations underneath the hills of the earth, until the day of their judgment and of their consummation, until the judgment that is forever and ever is accomplished.
10:13	And in those days they will lead them away into the abyss of fire, in torment and in prison they shall be shut up forever and ever.
10:14	And then he will burn and perish; from now on they shall be bound together with them until the consummation of all generations.
10:15	And destroy all the spirits of wantonness and the children of the Watchers, for they have wronged mankind.
10:16	Destroy all violence from the face of the earth, and let every evil deed come to an end; and let the plant of righteousness and uprightness appear, and it shall be a blessing; the works of righteousness and uprightness shall be planted forever with joy.
10:17	And now all the righteous shall escape, and they shall live until they beget thousands; and all the days of their youth and their sabbaths they shall complete in peace."
10:18	And in those days the whole earth will be tilled in righteousness, and all of it will be planted with trees, and it will be full of blessing.
10:19	And all the trees of joy will be planted upon it; and they will plant vines upon it, and the vine which is planted upon it will yield fruit in abundance; and of all the seed that is sown upon it, one measure will produce ten thousand, and one measure of olives will produce ten presses of oil.
10:20	And you, cleanse the earth from all oppression, and from all iniquity, and from all sin, and from all godlessness; and all the uncleanness that is wrought upon the earth, wipe them out from upon the earth.
10:21	And let all the children of men become righteous, and let all the nations worship and praise me, and all of them bow down to me.
10:22	And the earth will be cleansed from all corruption, and from all sin, and from all plague, and from all torment, and I will never again send a deluge upon it, to all generations and forever.
11:1	And in those days I will open the storehouses of blessing which are in heaven, to send them down upon the earth, upon the work and upon the labor of the children of men.
11:2	Peace and truth shall be joined together throughout all the days of the world and throughout all the generations of eternity.
12:1	And before all these things Enoch was hidden, and none of the children of men knew where he was hidden, and where he was, and what had become of him.
12:2	And his whole dwelling was with the holy ones and with the Watchers in his days.
12:3	And I, Enoch, was blessing the Lord of majesty and King of the ages. And behold, the Watchers called me, Enoch the scribe, and said to me:
12:4	“Enoch, scribe of righteousness, go, declare to the Watchers of heaven who have left the high heaven and the eternal holy station, and have defiled themselves with women, and have done as the children of men do, and have taken wives for themselves, and have wrought great defilement upon the earth:
12:5	‘There shall be no peace for them upon the earth, nor forgiveness of sin.
12:6	For they shall have no joy in their children; they shall see the slaughter of their beloved ones, and over the destruction of their children they shall lament, and they shall supplicate forever, but there shall be neither mercy nor peace for them.’”
13:1	And Enoch went and said to Asael: “There shall be no peace for you; a great judgment has gone forth against you to bind you.
13:2	And relief and mercy and supplication shall not be yours, because you have taught oppression, and because of all the deeds of blasphemy and violence and sin which you showed to the children of men.
13:3	Then having gone, I spoke to all of them together; and they were all afraid, and fear and trembling seized them.
13:4	And they asked me a record of petition to write for them, so that they might obtain forgiveness, and that I might elevate the record of their petition unto the Lord of heaven.
13:5	For from then on they could not speak, nor could they lift up their eyes to heaven for shame of their sins for which they were condemned.
13:6	And then I wrote the record of their petition and their supplication concerning their spirits and each of their deeds, and concerning that which they asked, that there might be for them forgiveness and forbearance.
13:7	And I went and sat down by the waters of Dan, in Dan, which is to the south- west of Hermon; and I read the record of their petition until I fell asleep.
13:8	And behold, a dream came to me, and visions fell upon me, and I saw a vision of wrath, that I might speak to the sons of heaven and rebuke them.
13:9	And waking up, I came to them, and all of them were sitting gathered together, mourning at Ublesyael, which is between Lebanon and Seneser, with their faces covered.
13:10	And I spoke before them all the visions that I had seen in my sleep, and I began to speak these words of righteousness, and to rebuke the Watchers of heaven.
14:1	This book is the word of righteousness and the rebuke of the Watchers who are from eternity, according as the Holy and Great One commanded in that vision.
14:2	I saw in my sleep that which I will now speak with a tongue of flesh and with my breath, which the Great One has given to the mouth of humans to speak with it and to understand with the heart.
14:3	As he has created and given to human beings to understand the word of knowledge, so he has created and given to me to rebuke the Watchers, the sons of heaven.
14:4	And I your petition wrote down; and in my vision it appeared thus: that your petition will not be granted to you through all the days of eternity, and complete judgment has been decreed upon you, and it will not be granted to you.
14:5	And from now on you will not ascend into heaven to all eternity, and on earth it has been decreed that they will bind you for all the days of eternity.
14:6	And before this, you will see the destruction of your beloved children, and you will have no pleasure in them, but they will fall before you by the sword;
14:7	and your petition on their behalf will not be granted, nor on your own behalf, even while you weep and supplicate and do not speak any word from the book which I wrote.
14:8	And the vision appeared to me thus: behold, clouds in the vision called me, and a mist called me; in the vision called me, and a mist called me, and the course of the stars and the lightnings hastened me, and pressed me on, and winds in the vision caused me to fly and lifted me up, and carried me up into heaven.
14:9	And I went in until I drew near to a wall that was built of stones of hail, and tongues of fire surrounded it, and it began to terrify me.
14:10	And I entered into the tongues of fire and drew near to a house, a great one, built with stones of hail; and the walls of that house were like a mosaic of slabs of stones, of stones of hail, and its floor was snow.
14:11	Its ceiling was like the course of the stars and lightnings, and between them were fiery cherubim, and their heaven was water.
14:12	And a burning fire was round about its walls, and its door burned with fire.
14:13	And I entered into that house, and it was hot as fire and cold as ice, and there was nothing of pleasure and life in it; fear covered me and trembling seized me.
14:14	And while I was troubled and trembling, I fell on my face; and I was looking in a vision.
14:15	And behold, another house, greater than this, and its every door was open before me, and it was built of tongues of fire.
14:16	And in every way it excelled in glory and honor and greatness, so that I cannot recount to you concerning its glory and concerning its greatness.
14:17	And its floor was fire, and above it were lightnings and the course of the stars, and its ceiling also was a burning fire.
14:18	And I looked and saw in it a lofty throne; and its appearance was like crystal, and its wheels like the shining sun, and the voice of the cherubim.
14:19	And from beneath the throne, the great, streams of flaming fire were issuing, and one could not look upon it.
14:20	And the Great Glory sat upon it, and his raiment was brighter than the sun and whiter than any snow.
14:21	And not a single angel could enter; nor could anyone of flesh look upon the appearance of the face of the Honored and Glorious One.
14:22	A burning fire was round about him, and a fire, great, stood before him; and there was no one who drew near to him from among those who surrounded him; ten thousand times ten thousand were before him, and he needed no counsel.
14:23	The holy of holies who drew near to him did not depart by night or by day, nor did they move away from him.
14:24	And until this time I was on my face, covered and trembling; and the Lord with his mouth He called me and said to me, 'Come near here, Enoch, and to my holy word.'
14:25	And he raised me up and brought me near as far as the door; and I was looking with my face downward.
15:1	And he answered and said to me with his voice, 'Hear, do not fear, Enoch, righteous man and scribe of righteousness; come near here and hear my word.
15:2	And go, say to the Watchers of heaven who sent you to petition on their behalf: "You ought to petition on behalf of humans, not humans on your behalf.
15:3	Why have you forsaken the high, holy, and eternal heaven, and slept with women, and defiled yourselves with the daughters of men, and taken wives for yourselves, and acted like the children of the earth, and begotten giant sons?
15:4	Though you were spiritual, holy, living an eternal life, you defiled yourselves with women, and begot with the blood of flesh, and lusted with the blood of humans, and did as they do—flesh and blood, who die and perish.
15:5	Therefore I gave them wives, so that they might sow seed in them and children might be born by them, so that thus deeds might be done upon the earth.
15:6	But you were formerly spiritual, living an eternal life which does not die for all the generations of the world.
15:7	Therefore I did not appoint wives for you, for the spiritual ones have their dwelling in heaven.
15:8	And now, the giants who were born from spirits and flesh shall be called evil spirits upon the earth, and upon the earth shall be their dwelling.
15:9	Evil spirits have come forth from their bodies, because they were created from above; from the holy Watchers was their beginning and primal foundation. They will be evil spirits upon the earth, and evil spirits shall they be called.
15:10	And the spirits of heaven, in heaven shall be their dwelling, but the spirits of the earth who were born upon the earth, in the earth shall be their dwelling.
15:11	And the spirits of the giants, clouds, which oppress, corrupt, fall, fight, and crush upon the earth, and cause sorrow; they eat no food, nor do they thirst, and they are invisible,
15:12	and these spirits shall not rise up against the children of men and against women, because they have come forth
16:1	in the days of slaughter and destruction and death of the giants. From wherever the spirits have gone forth from their souls, their flesh shall be destroyed without judgment; thus they shall destroy until the day of the great consummation, the great, of the age, the great, which shall be fulfilled upon the Watchers and the ungodly."
16:2	And now to the Watchers who sent you to petition on their behalf, who were formerly in heaven, say:
16:3	"You were in heaven, but secrets had not yet been revealed to you, and a rejected mystery you knew, and this you made known to the women in the hardness of your heart, and through this mystery women and men multiply evil upon the earth."
16:4	Say to them therefore: 'You have no peace.'"
17:1	And they took me to a place where those who were there were like burning fire, and when they wished, they appeared like men.
17:2	And he led me to a place of storm, and to a mountain whose summit reached to heaven.
17:3	And I saw the places of the luminaries and thunder in the ends, in their depths, a bow of fire and arrows and their quivers, and a sword of fire, and all the lightnings.
17:4	And they took me as far as the water of life that speaks, and as far as the fire of the west, which receives every setting of the sun.
17:5	And I came to a river of fire, which flows its fire like water and pours out into the sea great which is toward the west.
17:6	And I saw all the great rivers, and as far as the great darkness I came, and I went where all flesh walks.
17:7	And I saw the mountains of the winter darkness, and the place where the waters of the whole abyss pour out,
17:8	the mouth of all the rivers of the earth, and the mouth of the abyss.
18:1	And I saw the storehouses of all the winds, and I saw how with them he adorned all creation and the foundations of the earth.
18:2	And I saw the corner- stone of the earth; and I saw the four winds that bear the earth and the firmament of heaven.
18:3	And I saw how the winds stretch out the height of heaven, and they stand between heaven and earth; they are the pillars of heaven.
18:4	And I saw the winds that turn the heaven, that bring to sunset the disk of the sun and all the stars.
18:5	And I saw the winds upon the earth bearing the clouds; and I saw the paths of the angels; I saw at the edge of the earth the firmament of heaven above.
18:6	And I passed toward the south, and it burns day and night, toward seven mountains of precious stone, three toward the east and three toward the south.
18:7	And those toward the east were of colored stone, and one was of pearl, and one of the stone of healing; and those toward the south, toward the south were of red stone.
18:8	And the middle one reached up to heaven like the throne of God, of alabaster stone, and the summit of the throne was of sapphire stone.
18:9	And I saw a burning fire, and what was in all the mountains.
18:10	There is the place beyond the great earth; there the waters gather together.
18:11	And I saw a deep chasm of the earth with pillars of heavenly fire; and I saw among them pillars of heaven of fire falling, and they were without number, neither toward the height nor toward the depth.
18:12	And above that chasm I saw a place with no firmament of heaven above it, nor foundation of the earth beneath it, nor was there any water upon it, nor birds, but it was a desolate and terrible place.
18:13	I saw there seven stars like great burning mountains, and like a spirit that questioned me.
18:14	The angel said, 'This is the place of the end of heaven and earth; this has become a prison for the stars of heaven and for the host of heaven.
18:15	And the stars that roll over the fire, these are they that transgressed the command of the Lord before their rising, because they did not come out in their appointed time.'
18:16	And he was wroth with them, and bound them until the time of the consummation of their sin, in the year of mystery.
19:1	And Uriel said to me: "Here shall stand the spirits of the angels who have joined themselves with women, and assuming many different forms have defiled mankind and lead them astray to sacrifice to demons as gods, until the day of the great judgment in which they shall be judged until they are made an end of."
19:2	"And their women also, having led astray the angels of heaven, shall become sirens."
19:3	And I, Enoch, alone saw the vision, the ends of all things; and no one among men shall see as I have seen.
20:1	And these are the names of the holy angels who watch:
20:2	Uriel, one of the holy angels, who is over thunder and trembling.
20:3	Raphael, one of the holy angels, who is over the spirits of men.
20:4	Raguel, one of the holy angels, who takes vengeance on the world and on the luminaries.
20:5	Michael, one of the holy angels, set over the best part of humanity and over the nation.
20:6	Saraqael, one of the holy angels, who is set over the spirits of the children of men who sin in the spirit.
20:7	Gabriel, one of the holy angels, who is over the serpents, over paradise, and over the cherubim.
21:1	And I proceeded to a place where nothing was made.
21:2	And I saw there a terrible thing: neither a lofty heaven nor a founded earth, but a desolate place, prepared and terrible.
21:3	And there I saw seven stars of heaven bound together in it, like great mountains and burning as with fire.
21:4	Then I said: "For what sin are they bound, and for what reason have they been cast here?"
21:5	Then Uriel, one of the holy angels who was with me and guided me, answered me and said: "Enoch, why do you ask, and why are you eager for the truth, and why do you inquire and search diligently?"
21:6	"These are among the stars that transgressed the commandment of the Lord Most High, and they are bound here until ten thousand ages, the number of the days of their sin, are fulfilled."
21:7	And from there I went to another place more terrible than this, and I saw a terrible thing: a great fire there that was burning and blazing, and the place had a cleft extending to the complete abyss, full of pillars of great fire being cast down; and neither its extent nor its magnitude could I see, nor was I able to see its origin.
21:8	Then I said: "How terrible is this place, and painful to look upon!"
21:9	Then Uriel, one of the holy angels who was with me, answered me and said to me: "Enoch, why do you have such fear and trembling concerning this terrible place and before the face of this suffering?"
21:10	And he said to me: "This place is the prison of the angels, and there they shall be held forever."
22:1	And from there I went to another place, and he showed me in the west a great and high mountain and strong rock.
22:2	And there were four beautiful hollow places within it, which were deep, wide, and very smooth, as smooth as something that rolls, and deep and dark to look upon.
22:3	Then Raphael, one of the holy angels who was with me, answered me and said to me: "These beautiful hollow places are for the spirits of the souls of the dead to assemble in; for them were they created, that here they should assemble all the souls of the children of men."
22:4	"And these places were made to hold them until the day of their judgment and until their appointed time, and the appointed time is great, until the great judgment comes upon them."
22:5	And I saw the spirits of the children of men who were dead, and their voice went forth unto heaven and cried out.
22:6	Then I asked Raphael, the angel who was with me, and said to him: “This spirit, whose is it, whose voice thus goes forth and cries out?”
22:7	And he answered me and said to me, saying: “This is the spirit which came forth from Abel, whom Cain his brother slew; and he accuses him until his seed is destroyed from the face of the earth, and his seed is wiped out from among the seed of men.”
22:8	Then I asked concerning him and concerning the judgment of all, and I said: “Why is one separated from another?”
22:9	And he answered me and said to me: “These three were made that they might separate the spirits of the dead. And thus the souls of the righteous are separated; this is the spring of water, above which is light.
22:10	Likewise it was created for sinners when they die and are buried in the earth, and judgment was not executed upon them in their life.
22:11	And here their souls are separated in this great pain, until the great day of judgment and punishment and torment for those who curse forever, and retribution for their souls; and there he will bind them forever, even if it be from before eternity.”
22:12	And thus it was separated for the souls of those who make complaint, and who make disclosure concerning destruction, when they were slain in the days of the sinners.
22:13	Thus it was created for the souls of men who are not righteous, but sinners, who are complete in transgression, and with the transgressors they shall be like them. But their souls shall not be slain on the day of judgment, nor shall they rise from here.”
22:14	Then I blessed the Lord of glory and said: “Blessed is my Lord, the Lord of glory and righteousness, who rules over all forever.”
23:1	And from there I went to another place toward the west, unto the ends of the earth.
23:2	And I saw a burning fire that ran without resting, and did not cease from its course day and night, but continued regularly.
23:3	And I asked, saying: “What is this which has no rest?”
23:4	Then Raguel, one of the holy angels who was with me, answered me and said to me: “This which you saw, the course toward the west, the fire that burns, is all the luminaries of heaven.”
24:1	And from there I went to another place of the earth, and he showed me a mountain of fire that flamed day and night.
24:2	And I went toward it and saw seven magnificent mountains, each differing from the other, with precious and beautiful stones, and all magnificent and glorious in their appearance and beautiful in their aspect: three toward the east, established one upon another, and three toward the north, one upon another, and deep and rugged ravines, not one approaching another.
24:3	And the seventh mountain was in the midst of these, and in their height they all resembled the seat of a throne, and fragrant trees surrounded it.
24:4	And among them was a tree such as I had never yet smelled, nor was any among them or other trees like it; it smelled sweeter than all fragrance, and its foliage and its blossom and its wood never wither forever, and its fruit is beautiful, and its fruit is like the clusters of a date palm.
24:5	And then I said: “Behold, this beautiful tree, and beautiful to behold, and delightful is its foliage, and its fruit is very pleasant to the sight!”
24:6	Then Michael, one of the holy and honored angels who was with me, and who was over them, answered me.
25:1	And he said to me: “Enoch, why do you ask me concerning the fragrance of this tree, and why do you seek to know?”
25:2	Then I, Enoch, answered him, saying: “Concerning everything I desire to know, but especially concerning this tree.”
25:3	And he answered me, saying: “This high mountain which you saw, whose summit is like the throne of the Lord, is his throne, where the Holy and Great One, the Lord of glory, the Eternal King, will sit when he comes down” he shall visit the earth with goodness.
25:4	And as for this tree of fragrant scent, no flesh has authority to touch it until the time of the great judgment, when he shall take vengeance on all and bring everything to completion forever; it shall be given to the righteous and humble.
25:5	From its fruit life shall be given to the chosen; it shall be planted toward the north in the holy place, toward the house of the Lord, the Eternal King.
25:6	Then they shall rejoice with joy and be glad; into the holy place they shall enter; its fragrance shall be in their bones, and a long life shall they live on earth, as your fathers lived; and in their days sorrow and pain and toil and plague shall not touch them.
25:7	Then I blessed the Lord of Glory, the Eternal King, because he has prepared such things for righteous people, and created them, and said that he would give them to them.
26:1	And from there I went to the middle of the earth, and I saw a blessed, watered place, where there were branches that remained and sprouted from a tree that had been cut down.
26:2	And there I saw a holy mountain, and beneath the mountain water on the east, and its flow was toward the north.
26:3	And I saw toward the east another mountain higher than this, and between them a deep valley, and it had no breadth, and through it ran water toward the mountain.
26:4	And toward the west of this was another mountain, lower than it and without height, and a valley beneath it between them; and other deep and dry valleys at the edge of the three of them.
26:5	And all the valleys were deep and had no breadth, formed of hard rock, and trees were planted upon them.
26:6	And I marveled at the rock, and I marveled at the valley; indeed, I marveled exceedingly.
27:1	Then I said: "Why is this land blessed and all filled with trees, but this valley cursed between them?"
27:2	Then Raphael, one of the holy angels who was with me, answered me and said to me: "This cursed valley is for those who are cursed forever; here shall be gathered all who speak with their mouth unseemly words against God, and utter hard things against his glory. Here they shall gather them, and here shall be their place of judgment.
27:3	And in the last days there shall be upon them the spectacle of righteous judgment before the righteous forever, for all time; here the merciful shall bless the Lord of Glory, the Eternal King."
27:4	And in the days of their judgment they shall bless him in mercy, according as he has allotted to them.
27:5	Then I too blessed the Lord of Glory, and spoke to him, and remembered him as was fitting for his greatness.
28:1	And from there I went toward the east, into the midst of the mountain range of the desert, and I saw a solitary wilderness.
28:2	Yet it was full of trees from this seed, and water gushed forth upon it from above;
28:3	a torrent appeared flowing abundantly, as toward the north and toward the west, and from all sides there arose water and dew.
29:1	And I went to another place from the desert; I drew near toward the east of that mountain.
29:2	And there I saw trees of judgment, especially exuding the fragrance of frankincense and myrrh, and the trees were not alike.
30:1	And beyond it, above these, above the mountain of the east, and not far, I saw another place, ravines of water, like that which does not run dry.
30:2	And I saw a beautiful tree, and its fragrance was like that of mastic.
30:3	And towards the sides of these ravines I saw cinnamon of sweet scent; and over these I advanced towards the east.
31:1	And I saw another mountain in which were trees, and there flowed forth water, and there issued from it something like nectar whose name is sarara and galbanum.
31:2	And over that mountain I saw another mountain, and upon it were aloe trees, and those trees were full like almond bark, and strong.
31:3	And when they take that fruit, it is better than any fragrance.
32:1	And after these fragrances, looking towards the north over the mountains, I saw seven mountains full of choice nard and fragrant trees of sweet scent and pepper.
32:2	And from there I went over the summits of those mountains, far away to the east, and I passed over the Erythraean Sea, and went far from it, and passed over the angel Zotiel.
32:3	And I came into the Garden of Righteousness, and I saw beyond those trees many trees, and great, growing there, and their fragrance was good, great, good and great, and their beauty was abundant and glorious, and the tree of wisdom, from which having eaten they learn great wisdom.
32:4	And it is like the carob tree, and its fruit is like a cluster of grapes, very beautiful, and the fragrance of that tree goes and reaches far.
32:5	And I said, 'How beautiful is this tree, and how good and joyful is its appearance!'
32:6	And the holy angel Raphael, who was with me, answered me and said to me, 'This is the tree of wisdom, from which your aged father and your ancient mother, who were before you, ate; and they learned wisdom, and their eyes were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they were driven out of the garden.'
33:1	And from there I went to the ends of the earth, and I saw there beasts great, and each differed from the other; and the birds also differed in their form and their beauty, and their voices differed one from another.
33:2	And to the east of these beasts I saw the ends of the earth whereon heaven rests, and the portals of heaven opened.
33:3	And I saw how they come forth, the stars of heaven, and I counted those from which they come forth, the portals, and I wrote down all their outlets, for each individual one according to their number, and their names according to their order, and their positions, and their times, and their months, as the angel Uriel who was with me showed me.
33:4	And he showed me everything and wrote it down for me; and also their names he wrote down for me, and their regulations and their functions.
34:1	And from there I went towards the north to the ends of the earth, and there I saw a wonder great and glorious at the ends of the whole earth.
34:2	And there I saw portals of heaven open in heaven: three of them; through each one of them winds go forth towards the north when there blow cold, and hail, and frost, and snow, and dew, and rain.
34:3	and from one portal pleasantly it blows; and when through both portals they blow with violence and distress, it comes upon the earth, and with violence they blow.
35:1	And from there I went toward the west, to the ends of the earth, and I saw there three portals open, just as I saw in the east, with a like number of portals and a like number of their outlets.
36:1	And from there I went toward the south to the ends of the earth, and there I saw three portals of heaven open, and there came forth from there the south wind, and dew, and rain, and wind.
36:2	And from there I went toward the east to the ends of heaven, and there I saw three portals of heaven open toward the east, and above them portals, small.
36:3	Through each one of these portals, small, pass the stars of heaven, and they travel westward on the path shown to them.
36:4	And when I saw, I blessed, and at all times I will bless the Lord of Glory, who made wonders great and glorious, that he might show the greatness of his work to his angels and to the souls of men, that they might praise his work and all his creation, that they might see the work of his power, and praise the work of his hands, great, and bless him forever.
37:1	The vision which he saw—the second vision of wisdom—which Enoch saw, the son of Jared, son of Mahalalel, son of Cainan, son of Enosh, son of Seth, son of Adam.
37:2	And this is the beginning of the words of wisdom which I took up to speak and say to those who dwell upon the dry land: Hear, you ancient ones, and see, you who come after, the holy words which I speak before the Lord of Spirits.
37:3	It would have been better to have spoken these things first to the ancients, but from those who come after we will not withhold the beginning of wisdom.
37:4	Until now there has not been given to me from before the Lord of Spirits such wisdom as I have received according to my insight, according to the pleasure of the Lord of Spirits, by whom the lot of eternal life has been given to me.
37:5	And three parables were given to me, and I took them up, saying to those who dwell upon the dry land:
38:1	The first parable: When the congregation of the righteous shall appear, and sinners shall be judged for their sins, and be driven from the face of the dry land;
38:2	and when the Righteous One shall appear before the face of the righteous, the elect, whose works hang upon the Lord of Spirits, and light shall appear to the righteous and the elect who dwell upon the dry land, where then will be the dwelling of sinners, and where the resting place of those who denied the Lord of Spirits? It had been better for them if they had not been born.
38:3	And when the secrets of the righteous shall be revealed, sinners shall be judged, and the impious driven from the presence of the righteous and elect.
38:4	And from that time they will not be the mighty, nor the exalted who possess the earth; and they will not be able to behold the face of the holy ones, for the light of the Lord of Spirits has appeared upon the face of the holy, the righteous, and the chosen.
38:5	And the kings and the mighty shall perish at that time, and they shall be given into the hand of the righteous and the holy.
38:6	And from that time on there is no one who will seek mercy from the Lord of Spirits, for their life has come to an end.
39:1	And it shall come to pass in those days that the chosen and holy children will descend from the high heavens, and their seed will become one with the children of men.
39:2	In those days Enoch received books of indignation and wrath, and books of haste and turmoil. 'And mercy shall not be upon them,' says the Lord of Spirits.
39:3	And at that time a cloud snatched me away, and a whirlwind of wind lifted me up from the face of the earth, and set me down at the end of the heavens.
39:4	And there I saw another vision: the dwelling places of the righteous and the resting places of the holy.
39:5	There my eyes saw their dwellings with the angels and their resting places with the holy ones; and they were petitioning and interceding and praying on behalf of the children of men, and righteousness flowed like water before them, and mercy like dew upon the earth; thus it is among them forever and ever.
39:6	And in those days my eyes saw the place of the chosen of righteousness and of faith, and righteousness shall be in their days, and the righteous and the chosen shall be without number before him forever and ever.
39:7	And I saw their dwelling beneath the wings of the Lord of Spirits, and all the righteous and chosen before him were resplendent like the light of fire, and their mouths were full of blessing, and their lips praised the name of the Lord of Spirits, and righteousness before him does not fail, and uprightness before him does not fail.
39:8	There I desired to dwell, and my soul longed for that dwelling; there my portion had been established beforehand, for thus it was established concerning me before the Lord of Spirits.
39:9	And in those days I praised and exalted the name of the Lord of Spirits with blessing and praise, for he has established me in blessing and praise according to the good pleasure of the Lord of Spirits.
39:10	And for a long time my eyes looked upon that place, and I blessed and praised him, saying: 'Blessed is he, and may he be blessed from the beginning and forevermore!'
39:11	And before him there is no cessation; he knows, before the world was created, what the world is, and what shall be from generation to generation.
39:12	Those who do not sleep bless you; they stand before your glory and bless, praise, and exalt, saying: 'Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of Spirits; he fills the earth with spirits.'
39:13	And there my eyes saw all those who do not sleep standing before him, and they blessed, saying: 'Blessed are you, and blessed is the name of the Lord forever and ever!'
39:14	And my face was transformed, so that I was unable to look.
40:1	And after this I saw thousands of thousands and ten thousand times ten thousands, without number and reckoning, standing before the glory of the Lord of Spirits.
40:2	I looked, and on the four sides of the Lord of Spirits I saw four presences, different from those who stand, and I learned their names, for he made known to me their names, the angel who went with me and showed me all the hidden things.
40:3	And I heard the voices of those four presences as they were praising before the Lord of glory.
40:4	The first voice blesses the Lord of Spirits forever and ever.
40:5	And the second voice I heard blessing the Chosen One and the chosen ones who cling to the Lord of Spirits.
40:6	And the third voice I heard petitioning and praying on behalf of those who dwell upon the dry land and making supplication in the name of the Lord of Spirits.
40:7	And the voice of the fourth I heard casting out the satans and not allowing them to come before the Lord of Spirits to accuse those who dwell upon the dry land.
40:8	And after that, I asked the angel of peace who went with me, who showed me everything that is hidden: “Who are these four faces which I have seen, and whose words I have heard and written down?”
40:9	And he said to me: “This first one is the merciful and slow to anger, holy Michael; and the second, who is set over all disease and over all the wounds of the children of men, is Raphael; and the third, who is set over all power, is holy Gabriel; and the fourth, who is set over repentance unto hope for those who inherit eternal life, is Phanuel.”
40:10	And these are the four angels of the Lord Most High, and the four voices which I heard in those days.
41:1	And after that, I saw all the secrets of the heavens, and how the kingdom is divided, and how the deeds of men are weighed in the balance.
41:2	There I saw the dwelling places of the chosen and the resting places of the holy; and my eyes saw there all the sinners being driven away from there, who deny the name of the Lord of Spirits, and they drag them away, and they cannot stand because of the plague which goes forth from the Lord of Spirits.
41:3	And there my eyes saw the secrets of the lightnings and the thunders, and the secrets of the winds, how they are divided to blow upon the earth, upon the earth, and the secrets of the clouds and the dew; and there I saw the place from which it goes forth in that place, and from there they satisfy the dust of the earth.
41:4	And there I saw closed storehouses, and from them the winds are divided, and the storehouse of hail, and the storehouse of mist, and the storehouse of clouds, and its cloud over the earth dwells from before the world.
41:5	And I saw the storehouses of the sun and the moon, from where they go forth and where they return, and their glorious return, and how one is more magnificent than the other, and their course is glorious, and they do not transgress the course, and they do not add nor diminish from the course of theirs, and they keep their fidelity, one with another, abiding by the oath.
41:6	And the sun goes forth first and accomplishes its path according to the commandment of the Lord of Spirits, and His name is strong forever and ever.
41:7	And after that, the path of the hidden and of the revealed of the moon, and the course of its path it fulfills in that place, by day and by night, one facing the other before the Lord of Spirits; and they give thanks and praise and do not rest, for to them their thanksgiving is rest.
41:8	For the shining sun has many turnings for a blessing and for a curse, and the course of the path of the moon is light for the righteous and darkness for the sinners, in the name of the Lord who created between light and between darkness, and divided the spirits of men, and strengthened the spirits of the righteous in the name of His righteousness.
41:9	For no angel hinders, because the Judge sees them all, and all of them He judges before Himself.
42:1	Wisdom found no place where she might dwell, and her dwelling was in the heavens.
42:2	Wisdom went forth to dwell among the children of men, and found no dwelling place; Wisdom returned to her place and took her seat among the angels.
42:3	And iniquity went forth from her storehouses; she found those whom she did not seek, and dwelt among them, like rain in a desert, and like dew on a thirsty land.
43:1	And I saw other lightnings and the stars of heaven, and I saw how He calls them all by their names, and they obey Him.
43:2	And I saw the balance of righteousness, how they are weighed by their light, by the width of their spaces and the day of their appearance, and their turning: lightning begets lightning, and their revolution is according to the number of the angels, and they keep faith among themselves.
43:3	And I asked the angel who went with me, who showed me what was hidden, "What are these?"
43:4	And he said to me, "The Lord of Spirits has shown you their likeness: these are the names of the righteous who dwell upon the earth and believe in the name of the Lord of Spirits forever and ever."
44:1	And another thing I saw concerning the lightnings: how they arise from the stars and become lightning, and are unable to part from them.
45:1	And this is the second parable concerning those who deny the name of the dwelling of the holy ones and of the Lord of Spirits.
45:2	Neither into heaven shall they ascend, nor onto the earth shall they come; thus shall be the portion of the sinners who deny the name of the Lord of Spirits, who are thus preserved for the day of affliction and tribulation.
45:3	On that day, the Chosen One will sit upon the throne of glory and will test their deeds, and their resting places will be without number, and their spirit within them will grow strong when they see my Chosen One and those who have taken refuge in my holy and glorious name.
45:4	And on that day I will cause to dwell among them my Chosen One, and I will transform heaven and make it an eternal blessing and light.
45:5	And I will transform the earth and make it a blessing, and I will cause my chosen ones to dwell upon it; but those who commit sin and wrongdoing shall not set foot upon it.
45:6	For I have seen and satisfied with peace my righteous ones, and I have placed them before me; but for the sinners my judgment draws near to me, so that I may destroy them from the face of the earth."
46:1	And there I saw one who had a Head of Days, and his head was like white wool; and with him was another whose face was like the appearance of a human being, and his face was full of grace, like one of the holy angels.
46:2	And I asked one of the holy angels who went with me and showed me all the secrets concerning that Son of Man, who he was, and whence he was, and why he went with the Ancient of Days.
46:3	And he answered me and said to me, "This is the Son of Man who has righteousness, and with whom righteousness dwells, and who reveals all the treasures of what is hidden; for the Lord of Spirits has chosen him, and his lot has surpassed all before the Lord of Spirits in uprightness forever.
46:4	And this Son of Man whom you have seen will raise up the kings and the mighty from their beds, and the strong from their seats, and will loosen the reins of the strong, and will break the teeth of the sinners.
46:5	And he will drive out the kings from their thrones and from their kingdoms, because they do not exalt him and do not praise him, nor humbly acknowledge whence the kingdom was given to them.
46:6	And the face of the strong he will cast down, and shame will fill them; and darkness will be their dwelling, and worms will be their bed, and they will have no hope of rising from their beds, because they do not exalt the name of the Lord of Spirits.
46:7	And these are they who judge the stars of heaven, and raise their hands against the Most High, and tread upon the dry ground and dwell upon it; and all their deeds are iniquity, and their deeds display iniquity, and their power rests upon their wealth, and their faith is in the gods that they have made with their hands, and they deny the name of the Lord of Spirits,
46:8	and they will be driven from his houses of congregation, and of the faithful who hang upon the name of the Lord of Spirits."
47:1	And in those days ascended the prayer of the righteous, and the blood of the righteous from the earth before the Lord of Spirits.
47:2	In these days the holy ones who dwell above in the heavens with one voice will petition and pray and praise and give thanks and bless the name of the Lord of Spirits on behalf of the blood of the righteous that was shed, and the prayer of the righteous, so that it may not cease before the Lord of Spirits, so that judgment may be executed for them, and forbearance may not be granted to them forever.
47:3	And in those days I saw the Head of Days when he sat upon the throne of his glory, and the books of the living were opened before him, and all his host which is above in the heavens, and his surrounding court stood before him.
47:4	And the heart of the holy ones was filled with joy because it had arrived, and the prayer of the righteous was heard, and the blood of the righteous was required before the Lord of Spirits.
48:1	And in those days I saw the fountain of righteousness, which was inexhaustible, and around it were many fountains of wisdom; and all the thirsty drank from them and were filled with wisdom, and their dwellings were with the righteous and holy and chosen.
48:2	And at that hour was named that Son of Man in the presence of the Lord of Spirits, and his name before the Head of Days.
48:3	Even before the sun and the signs were created, before the stars of heaven were made, his name was named before the Lord of Spirits.
48:4	He shall be a staff to the righteous and holy that they may lean upon him and not fall, and he shall be the light of the nations, and he shall be the hope of those who are grieved in their hearts.
48:5	They shall fall down and worship before him, all who dwell upon the dry land, and they shall bless and praise and sing praises to the name of the Lord of Spirits.
48:6	And for this reason he was chosen and hidden before him before the creation of the world, and for eternity.
48:7	And the wisdom of the Lord of Spirits has revealed him to the holy and righteous, for he has preserved the lot of the righteous; for they have hated and despised this world of unrighteousness, and all its deeds and its ways they have hated in the name of the Lord of Spirits; for in his name they are saved, and he has become the guardian of their life.
48:8	And in those days the kings of the earth and the strong who possess the dry land shall be downcast in countenance because of the deeds of their hands, for on the day of their anguish and their distress they shall not save their souls.
48:9	And into the hands of my chosen I will deliver them, like grass into fire and like lead into water; so shall they burn before the face of the righteous and sink before the face of the holy, and no trace of them shall be found.
48:10	And on the day of their distress there shall be rest upon the earth, and they shall fall down before him and not rise again; and there shall be no one to take them by their hands and raise them up, for they have denied the Lord of Spirits and his Messiah. And blessed be the name of the Lord of Spirits.
49:1	For wisdom is poured out like water, and glory does not cease before him forever.
49:2	For he is mighty in all the secrets of righteousness, and unrighteousness like a shadow, and has no standing. For the Chosen One has stood before the Lord of Spirits, and his glory is forever and ever, passes away and his might unto generation upon generation.
49:3	And in him dwells the spirit of wisdom, and the spirit that gives understanding, and the spirit of instruction and of might, and the spirit of those who have fallen asleep in righteousness.
49:4	in righteousness. And he will judge the secret things, and no one will be able to utter an idle word before him; for he is the Chosen One before the Lord of Spirits according to his good pleasure.
50:1	And in those days a change will occur for the holy and the chosen, and the light of days upon them will dwell, and glory and honor will return to the holy, in the day of distress.
50:2	Evil will be heaped up against the sinners, but the righteous will prevail in the name of the Lord of Spirits; and he will show to others so that they may repent and forsake the works of their hands.
50:3	They shall have no honor before the Lord of Spirits, but in his name they will be saved, and the Lord of Spirits will have mercy on them, for his mercy is great.
50:4	And he is righteous in his judgment, and before his glory, and unrighteousness shall not stand; at his judgment whoever does not repent before him shall perish.
50:5	“And henceforth I will not have mercy on them,” says the Lord of Spirits.
51:1	And in those days the earth shall return its deposit, and Sheol shall return its deposit which it received, and destruction shall restore what it owes.
51:2	And he will choose the righteous and holy from among them, for the day has drawn near that they should be saved.
51:3	And the Chosen One in those days shall sit upon his throne, and all the secrets of wisdom will go forth from the counsel of his mouth, for the Lord of Spirits has given it to him and glorified him.
51:4	And in those days the mountains will leap like rams, and the hills also will skip like lambs satisfied with milk; and the faces of all the angels in heaven will shine with joy.
51:5	For in those days the Chosen One will arise, and the earth will rejoice, and the righteous upon it will dwell, upon it will dwell, and the chosen will walk and move about in it.
52:1	And after those days, in that place where I had seen all the visions of what was hidden—for I was snatched away in a whirlwind and they carried me toward the west.
52:2	And there my eyes saw all the secret things of heaven that shall take place on the earth: a mountain of iron, and a mountain of copper, and a mountain of silver, and a mountain of gold, and a mountain of soft metal, and a mountain of lead.
52:3	And I asked the angel who went with me, saying, “What are these things which I have seen in secret?”
52:4	And he said to me, “All these things which you have seen shall serve the authority of his Messiah, that he may command and be mighty upon the earth.”
52:5	And that angel of peace answered me, saying, “Wait a little, and you shall see, and there shall be revealed to you all the secret things which the Lord of Spirits has established.”
52:6	And these mountains which your eyes have seen: the mountain of iron, and the mountain of copper, and the mountain of silver, and the mountain of gold, and the mountain of soft metal, and the mountain of lead, all these in the presence of the Chosen One shall become like wax before fire, and like water that pours down from above upon these mountains, and they shall be weak beneath his feet.
52:7	And it shall come to pass in those days that none shall be saved, either by gold or by silver, and none shall be able to escape or flee.
52:8	And there shall be no iron for war, nor a garment for a breastplate; bronze shall not profit for a breastplate, and tin shall not profit or be accounted, and lead shall not be desired.
52:9	All these shall be denied and destroyed from the face of the earth, when the Chosen One appears before the face of the Lord of Spirits.
53:1	And there my eyes saw a deep valley with open mouths; and all who dwell on the dry land and sea and islands shall bring gifts and tribute to it, yet that deep valley shall not become full.
53:2	And they commit the sin of their hands, and all that the sinners toilsomely produce, they devour; and from the face of the Lord of Spirits shall be destroyed, the sinners, and from the face of his earth they shall be removed, and they shall perish forever and ever.
53:3	For I saw the angels of punishment as they were going and preparing all the instruments for Satan.
53:4	And I asked the angel of peace who went with me: "For whom are they preparing these instruments?"
53:5	And he said to me: "They are preparing these for the kings and the mighty of this earth, so that by them they may be destroyed."
53:6	And after this the Righteous and Chosen One shall cause the house of his congregation to appear; henceforth they shall no longer be hindered in the name of the Lord of Spirits.
53:7	And these mountains shall not be in his presence as the earth, and the hills shall become like a spring of water, and they shall rest, the righteous, from the oppression of the sinners.
54:1	And I looked and turned to another face of the earth, and I saw there a deep valley with burning fire.
54:2	And they brought the kings and the mighty, and cast them into that valley.
54:3	And there my eyes saw their instruments, how they made them into fetters of iron of immeasurable weight.
54:4	And I asked the angel of peace who went with me, saying: "These chains and instruments, for whom are they being prepared?"
54:5	And he said to me: "These are being prepared for the hosts of Azazel, that they may take them and cast them into the abyss of complete condemnation, and with jagged stones they shall cover their jaws, as the Lord of Spirits has commanded."
54:6	And Michael and Gabriel, Raphael and Phanuel—they shall take hold of them on that great day, and into the furnace of burning fire they shall cast them on that day, so that the Lord of Spirits may take vengeance on them for their unrighteousness, because they became servants of Satan and led astray those who dwell upon the dry land.
54:7	And in those days the punishment of the Lord of Spirits shall go forth, and all the chambers of waters which are above the heavens shall be opened, and above the fountains which are under the heavens and under the earth.
54:8	And all the waters shall be joined with the waters that are above the heavens; for the water that is above the heaven is masculine, and the water that is under the earth is feminine.
54:9	And all those shall be wiped out who dwell upon the dry land, and those who dwell dwelling beneath the ends of heaven.
54:10	And because of this they shall recognize their iniquity which they committed upon the earth, and because of this they shall perish.
55:1	And after this the Head of Days repented and said: In vain have I destroyed all who dwell upon the dry land.
55:2	And he swore by his great name: Henceforth I will not act thus toward all who dwell upon the dry land; and I will set a sign in heaven, and it shall be between me and between them a pledge forever, as long as the days of heaven are above the earth.
55:3	And after this, it is by my command when I wish to seize them by the hand of the angels on the day of distress and pain before this, my wrath and my punishment shall abide upon them, my punishment and my wrath, says God, the Lord of Spirits.
55:4	O kings, O mighty ones, who dwell upon the dry land, you shall have to see my Elect One sitting on the throne of my glory, and he shall judge Azazel and all his associates and all his hosts in the name of the Lord of Spirits.
56:1	And there I saw the hosts of the angels of punishment going and holding chains of iron and bronze.
56:2	And I asked the angel of peace who was going with me, saying: To whom are these who hold them going? And he said to me:
56:3	Each to their chosen ones and to their beloved ones, that they may be cast into the deep abyss of the valley.
56:4	And then that valley shall be filled with their chosen and their beloved ones, and there shall come to an end the day of their life, and the day of their error shall henceforth not be reckoned.
56:5	And in those days the angels shall gather together and turn their heads toward the east, toward the people of Parthia and Media; they shall stir up the kings, and a spirit of turmoil shall come upon them, and they shall stir them up from their thrones, and they shall leap forth like lions from their lairs, and like hungry wolves into the midst of their flock.
56:6	And they shall go up and trample upon the land of his chosen ones, and the land of his chosen ones shall become before them a threshing floor and a beaten track;
56:7	And the trace and city of my righteous ones will become a stumbling block to their horses. And they will stir up slaughter among themselves, and their right hand will be strong against them; and a man will not know his neighbor, nor his brother, nor a son his father and his mother, until there be a number of corpses through their death, and their punishment; and it will not be in vain.
56:8	And in those days will open her mouth Sheol, and they will sink down into it; and their destruction— Sheol will swallow up the sinners from the presence of the chosen ones.
57:1	And it came to pass after this that I saw another host of chariots, while they were riding, men upon them, and they came upon the winds from the east and from the west until midday.
57:2	And there was heard the sound of the noise of their chariots; and when this turmoil occurred, the holy ones from heaven noticed it, and the pillar of the earth was moved from its place, and it was heard from the ends of the earth to the ends of heaven in one day.
57:3	And they will all fall down and worship the Lord of Spirits. And this is the end of the second parable.
58:1	And I began to speak the third parable concerning the righteous and concerning the chosen.
58:2	Blessed are you, righteous and chosen, for glorious is your lot!
58:3	And the righteous will be in the light of the sun, and the chosen in the light of eternal life; and there will be no end to the days of their life, and for the holy ones there will be no number of days.
58:4	And they will seek the light and find righteousness with the Lord of Spirits; peace be to the righteous with the Lord of the world!
58:5	And after this it will be said to the holy ones that they should seek in heaven the secrets of righteousness, the lot of faith; for it has shone like the sun upon the earth, and darkness has passed away.
58:6	And there will be an unceasing light, and into a number of days they will not enter; for previously was destroyed the darkness, and the light will become strong before the Lord of Spirits, and the light of uprightness will be strong forever before the Lord of Spirits.
59:1	And in those days my eyes saw the secrets of the lightnings and of the lights, and their judgments; and they flash for a blessing or for a curse, according as the Lord of Spirits willed.
59:2	And there I saw the secrets of the thunder, and when it crashes in the upper heights of heaven and its sound is heard; and it showed me the dwelling places of the dry land, and the sound of thunder is for peace and for blessing, or for a curse, according to the word of the Lord of Spirits.
59:3	And after this, all the secrets of the lights and of the lightnings were shown to me; they flash for blessing and for abundance.
60:1	In the five hundredth year, in the seventh month, on the fourteenth day of the month, in the life of Enoch. In that parable I saw how the heaven of heavens shook with a shaking great, and the host of the Most High, and the angels, thousands of thousands and ten thousand times ten thousand, were troubled with a great troubling.
60:2	And then I saw the Head of Days sitting upon the throne of his glory, and the angels and the righteous around him were standing.
60:3	And trembling great seized me, and fear took hold of me. And my loins gave way, and was loosened, and my whole body dissolved, and I fell upon my face.
60:4	And Holy Michael sent another holy angel, one of the holy angels, and he raised me up; and when he raised me up, my spirit returned, for I had not been able to endure the sight of that host, and its disturbance, and the shaking of heaven.
60:5	And Holy Michael said to me: “Why has such a vision disturbed you? Until today the day of his mercy has lasted, and he has been merciful and slow to anger toward those who dwell upon the dry land.
60:6	And when the day comes, and the power, and the punishment and the judgment which the Lord of Spirits has prepared for those who bow down to the righteous judgment, and for those who deny the righteous judgment, and for those who take his name in vain—that day is prepared: for the chosen a covenant, and for the sinners an inquisition.”
60:7	And on that day two monsters shall be separated, a monster female, whose name is Leviathan, to dwell in the depths of the sea, above the springs of waters.
60:8	And the male is named Behemoth, who occupies with his breast an invisible desert, named Dundayn, to the east of the garden where the chosen and righteous dwell, where my forefather was taken up, who was the seventh from Adam, the first of men whom the Lord of Spirits made.
60:9	And I asked that other angel to show me the power of those monsters, how they were separated on one day and cast, one into the depth of the sea, and one onto the dry desert.
60:10	And he said to me: “You, son of man, desire here to know what is hidden.”
60:11	And the other angel who went with me and showed me what was secret spoke to me, what is first and what is last in heaven in the heights, and on the dry ground in the depths, and at the ends of heaven, and on the foundation of heaven,
60:12	and in the storehouses of the winds, and how the spirits are divided, and how they are weighed, and how the springs and the winds are counted according to the power of the spirit, and their power, and the power of the light of the moon, and according to the power of righteousness, and the divisions of the stars according to their names, and how every division is divided.
60:13	And the thunders according to the places where they fall, and every division that is divided among the lightnings, that they may flash, and their host that they may promptly obey.
60:14	For the thunder has places of rest; in patience it is assigned to its voice, and they are not separated, neither thunder nor lightning; and in one spirit both of them go, and are not separated.
60:15	For when the lightning flashes, the thunder utters its voice, and the spirit in its time rests, in its time rests, and divides equally between them; for the storehouse of their times is like sand, and each of them in its time with a bridle is held and turned back by the power of the spirit, and it is driven thus according to the number of the districts of the earth.
60:16	And the spirit of the sea is male and strong, and according to the power of its strength he turns it back with a bridle, and thus it is driven and scattered across all the mountains of the earth.
60:17	And the spirit of frost is its own angel, and the spirit of hail is a good angel.
60:18	And the spirit of snow he has relinquished on account of the power of his own, and it has a spirit of its own; and that which ascends from it is like smoke, and its name is Dadak.
60:19	And the spirit of mist is not joined with them in their storehouses, but it has a storehouse of its own; for its course is in glory, in light and in darkness, in winter and in summer, and the storehouse of it is light, and an angel is its guardian.
60:20	The spirit of dew has its dwelling at the ends of heaven, and is joined with the storehouses of rain; and its course is in winter and in summer, and its clouds and the clouds of mist are joined, and the one gives to the other.
60:21	And when the spirit of rain moves from its storehouse, the angels come and open the storehouse and bring it out; and when it is scattered over all the dry land, it unites with all the water that is upon the dry land. And whenever it unites with the water that is upon the dry land,
60:22	for the waters are for those who dwell upon the dry land, for nourishment for the dry land is from the Most High who is in heaven; therefore there is a measure for the rain, and the angels take charge of it.
60:23	All these things I saw as far as the Garden of the Righteous.
60:24	And the angel of peace who was with me said to me: “These two monsters, prepared in accordance with the greatness of God, will be fed so that the punishment of God may not be in vain; and children shall be slain with their mothers and sons with their fathers.
60:25	When rests the punishment of the Lord of Spirits upon them, it will rest so that the punishment of the Lord of Spirits may not come in vain upon them; afterward the judgment shall take place according to his mercy and his patience.”
61:1	And I saw in those days that there were given to those angels cords, long ones; and they took to themselves wings and flew, and went toward the north.
61:2	And I asked the angel, saying: “Why have these taken cords that are long and gone?” And he said to me: “They have gone to measure.”
61:3	And the angel who went with me said to me: “These are the measures of the righteous, and the cords of the righteous they shall bring, that they may lean upon the name of the Lord of Spirits forever and ever.”
61:4	And they shall begin to dwell, the chosen with the chosen; and these are the measures that shall be given to faith, and they shall strengthen the word of righteousness.
61:5	And these measures shall reveal all the secrets of to the depths of the earth, and those who perished in the wilderness, and those who were devoured by the fish of the sea and by the wild beasts, that they may return and rely on the day of the Chosen One; for there is none who shall perish before the Lord of Spirits, and none is able to perish.
61:6	And all who are in the heights of the heavens received a command, and a power, and one voice, and one light like fire.
61:7	And that first word they blessed, and exalted, and praised with wisdom, and they showed themselves wise in speech and in the spirit of life.
61:8	The Lord of Spirits placed the Chosen One upon the throne of his glory, and he shall judge all the works of the holy ones in the heights of heaven, and on the balance shall their deeds be weighed.
61:9	And when he lifts his face to judge their secret ways according to the word of the name of the Lord of Spirits, and their path according to the way of the righteous judgment of the Lord Most High, they shall all speak with one voice, and bless, and glorify, and exalt, and praise the name of the Lord of Spirits.
61:10	And he will summon all the host of the heavens, and all the holy ones on high, and the host of God—the Cherubim and Seraphim and Ophannim—and all the angels of power, and all the angels of principalities, and the Chosen One, and the other powers, and the other host who are upon dry land over the water on that day.
61:11	And they shall raise one voice, and bless, and glorify, and praise, and exalt in the spirit of faith, and in the spirit of wisdom, and in patience, and in the spirit of mercy, and in the spirit of judgment and peace, and in the spirit of goodness; and they shall all say with one voice: 'Blessed is he, and may the name of the Lord of Spirits be blessed forever and ever!'
61:12	All who do not sleep in the heights of heaven shall bless him; all his holy ones who are in heaven shall bless him, and all the chosen who dwell in the garden of life, and every spirit of light who is able to bless, and glorify, and exalt, and sanctify your holy name; and all flesh exceedingly, beyond measure, shall glorify and bless your name forever and ever.
61:13	For great is the mercy of the Lord of Spirits, and he is slow to anger; and all his work and all his might, as much as he has made, he has revealed to the righteous and to the chosen in the name of the Lord of Spirits.
62:1	Thus the Lord commanded the kings, and the mighty, and the exalted, and those who dwell upon the earth, saying: 'Open your eyes and lift up your horns, if you are able to recognize the Chosen One.'
62:2	And the Lord of Spirits sat upon the throne of his glory, and the spirit of righteousness was poured out upon him, and the word of his mouth slays all the sinners and all the unrighteous, and from his presence they shall be destroyed.
62:3	And on that day all the kings shall stand, and the mighty, and the exalted, and those who possess the earth; and they shall see and recognize how he sits upon the throne of his glory, and the righteous are judged in righteousness before him, and no idle word is spoken before him.
62:4	And pain shall come upon them like a woman in travail, for whom childbearing is hard when her child enters into the mouth of the womb, and she suffers difficulty in giving birth.
62:5	And one part of them shall look at another part of them, and they shall be terrified, and cast down their faces, and pain shall seize them when they see that Son of Man sitting upon the throne of his glory.
62:6	And they shall praise him, and bless him, and exalt him—the kings, and the mighty, and all those who possess the earth, to him who rules over all that is hidden.
62:7	For from the beginning the Son of Man was hidden, and he preserved him, the Most High, before his host, and revealed him to the chosen.
62:8	And the congregation of the holy and the chosen will be sown, and all the chosen will stand before him on that day.
62:9	And all the kings, the mighty, and the exalted, and those who rule the dry land, will fall before him on their faces, and will worship and set their hope upon that Son of Man, and they will entreat him and petition for mercy from him.
62:10	And he will press them, then, that Lord of Spirits, that they may make haste and depart from before his face, and their faces will be filled with shame, and darkness will be added to their faces.
62:11	And the angels of punishment will receive them, to exact vengeance on them because they oppressed his children and his chosen.
62:12	over them they will rejoice, for the wrath of the Lord of Spirits upon them rests, and the sword of the Lord of Spirits will be drunk with them.
62:13	And the righteous and the chosen will be saved on that day, and the face of the sinners and of the unrighteous they will not see henceforth.
62:14	And the Lord of Spirits over them will abide, and with that Son of Man they will dwell, and eat, and lie down, and rise up forever and ever.
62:15	And the righteous and chosen will have arisen from the earth, and ceased casting down their faces, and will have put on the garment of life.
62:16	And this will be the garment of life from the Lord of Spirits; and your garments will not wear out, and your glory will not pass away before the Lord of Spirits.
63:1	In those days, the kings, the mighty, who possess the dry land, will entreat his angels of punishment to whom they were handed over, that he might give them a little rest, and that they may fall down and worship before the Lord of Spirits, and confess their sins before him.
63:2	And they will bless and glorify the Lord of Spirits, and say: 'Blessed is the Lord of Spirits and the Lord of kings, the Lord of the mighty, and the Lord of the rich, and the Lord of glory, and the Lord of wisdom.
63:3	And every secret thing is clear, and your power is for generation upon generation, and your glory forever and ever. Deep are all your secrets and without number, and your righteousness is beyond reckoning.
63:4	Now we know that we ought to glorify and bless the Lord of kings and him who reigns over all kings.'
63:5	And they will say: 'Who will give us rest that we may glorify and give thanks and bless him, and make confession before his glory?
63:6	And now we long for a little rest, we long for a little rest, but do not find it; we are driven away and do not obtain it; and light from before us has passed away, and darkness is our dwelling place for ever and ever.
63:7	For we have not believed before him, nor have we praised the name of the Lord of Kings, nor have we glorified the Lord in all his works; but our hope was in the sceptre of our kingdom and in our glory.
63:8	And in the day of our distress and our affliction he does not save us, nor do we find rest to confess that our Lord is faithful in all his works, and in all his judgment and his righteousness, and his judgment shows no partiality.
63:9	And we pass away from his presence because of our deeds, and all our sins have been counted in righteousness.
63:10	Now they will say to them: 'Our souls are sated with unrighteous wealth, but it does not prevent our descent into the flame of the torment of Sheol.'
63:11	And after this their faces will be filled with darkness and shame before that Son of Man, and from before his face they will be driven out; and the sword will abide before his face in their midst.
63:12	And thus said the Lord of Spirits: 'This is the decree and the judgment of the mighty and of the kings, and of the exalted, and of those who possess the dry land before the Lord of Spirits.'
64:1	And I saw other faces hidden in that place.
64:2	I heard the voice of an angel saying: 'These are the angels who descended from heaven upon the earth, and revealed what was hidden to the children of men, and led the children of men astray so that they committed sin.'
65:1	And in those days Noah saw that the earth had tilted and that near was its destruction.
65:2	And he lifted up his feet from there and went to the ends of the earth, and cried out to his grandfather Enoch; and Noah said with a bitter voice: 'Hear me! Hear me! Hear me!' three times.
65:3	And he said to him: 'Tell me, what is it that is being done on the earth? For the earth is in such distress and is shaken, lest I perish with it.'
65:4	And after that time there was a disturbance great upon the earth, and was heard a voice from heaven, and I fell upon my face.
65:5	And Enoch my grandfather came and stood by me, and said to me: 'Why have you cried out to me a cry bitter and with weeping?
65:6	And a command has gone forth from the presence of the Lord concerning those who dwell upon the dry land, that their end must come, because they have learned all the secrets of the angels, and all the violence of the Satans, and all their power, which is secret, and all the power of those who practice sorceries, and the power of enchantments, and the power of those who cast molten images for the whole earth.
65:7	And how silver is produced from the dust of the earth, and how soft metal originates in the earth.
65:8	For lead and tin are not produced from the earth like the first; a spring is what produces them, and an angel stands within it, and that angel is foremost.
65:9	And after this, took hold of me my grandfather Enoch by his hand, and raised me up, and said to me: “Go, for I have asked the Lord of Spirits concerning this turmoil which is upon the earth.”
65:10	And he said to me: “Because of their iniquity, their judgment has been determined and will not be reckoned before me. Because of the sorceries which they searched out, they have also learned that the earth will be destroyed, and those who dwell upon it.
65:11	And for these there will be no place of repentance forever, because they have shown them what was secret, and they are condemned. But as for you, my son, the Lord of Spirits knows that you are pure and free from this reproach concerning the secrets.
65:12	And he has established your name in the midst of the holy ones, and will preserve you from among those who dwell upon the dry land; and he has established your offspring in righteousness for kings and for honors great, and from your offspring shall go forth a spring of righteous and holy ones without number forever.”
66:1	And after this he showed me the angels of punishment who were prepared to come and release all the power of the water which is under the earth, so that it might bring judgment and destruction upon all those who reside and dwell upon the dry land.
66:2	And the Lord of Spirits commanded the angels who were going forth not to lift up their hands, but to watch over them, because those angels were over the power of the waters.
66:3	And I departed from the presence of Enoch.
67:1	And in those days the word of God came to me, and he said to me: “Noah, behold, your lot has ascended to me, a lot without blame, portion of love and uprightness.
67:2	And now the angels are working with wood; and when those angels go forth, I will put my hand upon it and preserve it, and preserve it; and from it shall come a seed of life, and a change shall take place so that the dry land may not remain empty.
67:3	And I will establish your seed before me forever and ever, and I will spread them who dwell with you upon the face of the dry land; it will not be barren on the face of the earth, but it shall be blessed and multiply upon the dry land in the name of the Lord.
67:4	And they shall shut up those angels who showed unrighteousness in that burning valley which my grandfather Enoch had previously shown me in the west, among the mountains of gold and silver, and iron, and soft metal, and lead.
67:5	And I saw that valley, in which there was a disturbance great in it, and the waters were disturbed.
67:6	And when all this took place, from that molten metal of fire and from their disturbance which disturbed them in that place, there arose a smell of sulfur, and it combined with those waters; and that valley of the angels who had led astray burns beneath that earth.
67:7	And through its valleys rivers of fire flow, where those angels are punished who led astray those who dwell upon the dry land.
67:8	And those waters shall serve in those days for kings, and for mighty ones, and for those who dwell upon the dry land, for the healing of soul and body, and for the judgment of the spirit; and their spirit is full of lust, so that their flesh may be punished, because they denied the Lord of Spirits and see their judgment every day, yet do not believe in his name.
67:9	And as greatly their body is burned, so shall there be a change in their spirit forever and ever; for there is no one before the Lord of Spirits who speaks a word in vain.
67:10	For judgment comes upon them, because they believe in the lust of their flesh and the Spirit of the Lord they deny.
67:11	And those same waters shall undergo a change in those days; for when those angels are punished in the fountains of waters, and when they ascend, the angels, that water of the fountains changes and becomes cold.
67:12	And I heard holy Michael answering and saying: “This judgment with which the angels are punished is a testimony for the kings and for the mighty ones who possess the dry land.”
67:13	For these waters of judgment serve for the healing of the body of the angels and for the death of their flesh; yet they do not see and do not believe that those waters will be transformed and become a fire that burns forever.
68:1	And after this, my grandfather Enoch gave me the signs of all the secrets in a book, and the parables that were given to him; and he gathered them for me in the words of the Book of Parables.
68:2	And on that day holy Michael answered, saying to Raphael: “The power of the spirit seizes me and it makes me indignant, and on account of the severity of the judgment of the secret things, the judgment of the angels, who is he that can endure the severe judgment which has been executed and remains, and they melt away before it?”
68:3	And holy Michael answered again and said to Raphael: “Who is he who does not soften his heart concerning it, and whose kidneys are not troubled at this word of judgment that has gone forth against them, concerning those whom they have thus led out?”
68:4	And it came to pass, when he stood before the Lord of Spirits, that holy Michael spoke thus to Raphael: “I will not take their part under the eye of the Lord, for the Lord of Spirits is angry with them because they act as if they were the Lord.
68:5	Therefore the hidden judgment shall come upon them for ever and ever; for neither angel nor man shall receive their portion, but they alone have received their judgment for ever and ever.”
69:1	And after this judgment they shall terrify them and make them angry, because they showed this to those who dwell upon the dry land.
69:2	And behold, the names of those angels, and these are their names: the first of them is Semyaza, and the second Arstiqifa, and the third Armen, and the fourth Kokabiel, and the fifth Turiel, and the sixth Rumyal, and the seventh Danyel, and the eighth Nuqael, and the ninth Baraqiel, and the tenth Azazel, the eleventh Armaros, the twelfth Bataryal, the thirteenth Basasael, the fourteenth Ananel, the fifteenth Turyal, the sixteenth Simapisiel, the seventeenth Yetarel, the eighteenth Tumael, the nineteenth Tarel, the twentieth Rumael, the twenty-first Ezeqiel.
69:3	And these are the chiefs of their angels, and their names, and their chiefs of hundreds, and their chiefs of fifties, and their chiefs of tens.
69:4	The name of the first is Yeqon; this is he who led astray all the children of the holy angels, and brought them down upon the dry land, and led them astray through the daughters of men.
69:5	And the second was named Asbeel; he gave evil counsel to the children of the holy angels, and led them astray so that they defiled their bodies with the daughters of men.
69:6	And the third was named Gadreel; he is the one who showed all the blows of death to the children of men, and he led Eve astray, and he showed the weapons of death to the children of men: the shield and the coat of mail and the sword for battle, and all the weapons of death to the children of men.
69:7	And from his hand they have proceeded against those who dwell upon the dry land from that day and for ever and ever.
69:8	And the fourth was named Penemue; he showed to the children of men the bitter and the sweet, and he showed them all the secrets of their wisdom.
69:9	And he instructed men in writing with ink and paper, and thereby many sinned from eternity to eternity and until this day.
69:10	For men were not created for this, that with pen and with ink they should confirm their faith.
69:11	For men were not created otherwise than like the angels, that they might remain righteous and pure, and death, which ruins everything, would not have touched them; but through this knowledge of theirs they perish, and through this power it consumes me.
69:12	And the fifth was named Kasdeja; he showed to the children of men all the evil blows of spirits and of demons, and the blows of the embryo in the womb, that it may miscarry, and the blows of the soul, the bite of the serpent, and the blows which occur at midday, the son of the serpent whose name is Tabaet.
69:13	And this is the task of Kasbeel, the chief of the oath, which he showed to the holy ones when he dwelt to the holy ones when he dwelt on high in glory, and its name is Biqa.
69:14	And this one told holy Michael that he should show them the secret name, so that they might see that secret name and mention it in the oath, so that they may tremble by that name and oath, who showed to the children of men all that was hidden.
69:15	And this is the power of this oath, for powerful it is and strong; and he placed this oath, Akae, in the hand of holy Michael.
69:16	And these are the secrets of this oath: and they were confirmed by his oath, and the heaven was suspended before the world was created and forever.
69:17	And through it the earth was founded upon the water, and from the secret places of the mountains come beautiful waters, from the creation of the world and forever.
69:18	And by that oath the sea was created, and as its foundation for the time of wrath he placed for it sand, and it does not pass beyond it, from the creation of the world and forever.
69:19	And by that oath the deeps are made firm, the deeps are made firm and stand, and they do not move from their place from eternity and forever.
69:20	And by that oath the sun and the moon complete their course, and do not transgress, and do not transgress their commandment from eternity and forever.
69:21	And by that oath the stars complete their courses, and he calls their names, and they answer him from eternity and forever.
69:22	And likewise for the water, the spirits of the winds, and of all spirits, and their paths from all the companies of spirits.
69:23	And there are kept the storehouses of the voice of the thunder and the light of the lightning; and there are kept the storehouses of hail and frost, and the storehouses of mist, and the storehouses of rain and dew.
69:24	And all of them give thanks and praise before the Lord of Spirits, and glorify with all their power, with all their power; and their sustenance is in all thanksgiving, and they give thanks and praise and exalt the name of the Lord of Spirits for ever and ever.
69:25	And over them was confirmed this oath, and they are preserved by it, and their paths are preserved, and their courses do not fail.
69:26	And they had joy great, and they blessed and praised and exalted, because the name of that Son of Man was revealed to them.
69:27	And he sat upon the throne of his glory, and the sum of judgment was given to him, the Son of Man, and he will cause to pass away and destroy the sinners from the face of the earth, and those who led the world astray.
69:28	With chains they shall be bound, and in their assembly of destruction they shall be locked up, and all their works shall pass away from the face of the earth.
69:29	And from then on there shall be nothing corruptible, for that Son of Man has appeared and sat down upon the throne of his glory; and all evil from before his face shall pass away and depart. And the word of that Son of Man shall go forth and be strong before the Lord of Spirits. This is the Parable of Enoch.
70:1	And it came to pass after this that was lifted up his living name to that Son of Man, unto the Lord of Spirits, from among those who dwell upon the dry land.
70:2	And he was lifted up in the chariots of the Spirit, and his name vanished from among them.
70:3	And from that day I was not counted among them; and he placed me between the two winds, between the north and the west, where took cords the angels to measure for me the place for the chosen and the righteous.
70:4	And there I saw the first fathers and the righteous, who from of old in that place dwell.
71:1	And it came to pass after this that my spirit was hidden and ascended into the heavens; and I saw the sons of the holy angels walking upon flames of fire, and their garments were white, and their raiment, and the light of their faces was like snow.
71:2	And I saw two rivers of fire, and the light of that fire shone like hyacinth; and I fell upon my face before the Lord of Spirits.
71:3	And Michael the angel, one of the archangels, seized me by my right hand, and raised me up, and led me out to all the secrets of mercy and the secrets of righteousness.
71:4	And he showed me all the secrets of the ends of heaven, and all the storehouses of all the stars and the luminaries, whence they go forth before the face of the holy ones.
71:5	And the spirit transported Enoch into the heaven of heavens, and I saw there in the midst that which was built of stone of crystal, and in the midst of those stones tongues of living fire.
71:6	And my spirit saw the circuit which surrounds that house of fire on its four sides, rivers full of full of living fire, and they surrounded that house.
71:7	And around it were the Seraphim, Cherubim, and Ophannim; these are they who do not sleep, and they guard the throne of his glory.
71:8	And I saw angels who could not be numbered, thousands of thousands and myriads of myriads, surrounding that house; and Michael, Raphael, Gabriel, and Phanuel, and the holy angels who are above the heavens, were going in and coming out of that house.
71:9	And there came out from that house Michael, Raphael, Gabriel, Phanuel, and many holy angels without number.
71:10	And with them was the Head of Days, and his head was like wool, white and pure, and his garment was indescribable.
71:11	And I fell upon my face, and all my flesh melted, and my spirit was transformed; and I cried out with a voice loud, with the spirit of power, and I blessed and glorified and exalted.
71:12	And these blessings which came forth from my mouth were well-pleasing before that Head of Days.
71:13	And that Head of Days came with Michael, Gabriel, Raphael, Phanuel, and thousands of myriads of angels without number.
71:14	And that angel came to me and with his voice, that angel with his voice greeted me and said to me: “You are the Son of Man who was born for righteousness, and righteousness over you has dwelt, and the righteousness of the Head of Days shall not forsake you.”
71:15	And he said to me: “He proclaims peace to you in the name of the world to come; for from there peace has proceeded from the creation of the world, and so shall it be to you forever and forever and ever.
71:16	And all shall be and shall walk in your path, while righteousness does not forsake you forever; with you shall be their dwelling, and with you their portion, and from you they shall not be separated forever and forever and ever.
71:17	And so shall there be length of length of days with that Son of Man, and peace shall be to the righteous, and an upright way to the righteous in the name of the Lord of Spirits forever, upright to the righteous in the name of the Lord of Spirits forever and ever.”
