Title:1	THE REMAINDER OF JEREMIAH THE PROPHET
1:1	It happened that when the children of Israel were taken captive by the king of the Chaldeans, God spoke to Jeremiah, saying, “Jeremiah, my chosen one, arise and go out from this city, you and Baruch; for I will destroy it because of the multitude of sins of those who dwell in it.”
1:2	For your prayers are like a firm pillar in its midst, and like an adamant wall surrounding it.
1:3	Now therefore, arise and go out before the Chaldean power encircles it.
1:4	And Jeremiah answered, saying, “I beseech you, Lord, permit me, your servant, to speak before you.”
1:5	And the Lord said to him, “Speak, my chosen one, Jeremiah.”
1:6	And Jeremiah spoke, saying, “Lord Almighty, are you delivering the chosen city into the hands of the Chaldeans, so that the king may boast with the multitude of his people and say, ‘I have prevailed over the holy city of God’?”
1:7	“No, my Lord! But if it is your will, let it be destroyed by your own hands.”
1:8	And the Lord said to Jeremiah, “Because you are my chosen one, arise and go out from this city, you and Baruch; for I will destroy it because of the multitude of sins of those who dwell in it.”
1:9	“For neither the king nor his power will be able to enter it, unless I first open its gates.”
1:10	“Therefore, arise and go to Baruch, and tell him these words.”
1:11	“And rising at the sixth hour of the night, come to the walls of the city, and I will show you that unless I first destroy the city, they cannot enter it.”
1:12	Having said these things, the Lord departed from Jeremiah.
2:1	And Jeremiah ran and reported these things to Baruch. And when they came to the temple of God, Jeremiah tore his clothes and put dust on his head and entered the sanctuary of God.
2:2	When Baruch saw him with dust sprinkled on his head and his clothes torn, he cried out with a loud voice, saying, “Father Jeremiah, what has happened to you, or what sin has the people committed?”
2:3	For whenever the people sinned, Jeremiah would sprinkle dust on his head and pray for the people until the sin was forgiven.
2:4	And Baruch asked him, saying, “Father, what is this?”
2:5	And Jeremiah said to him, “Refrain from tearing your clothes, but rather let us tear our hearts; and let us not draw water for the troughs, but let us weep and fill them with tears; for the Lord will not have mercy on this people.”
2:6	And Baruch said, “Father Jeremiah, what has happened?”
2:7	And Jeremiah said, “God is delivering the city into the hands of the king of the Chaldeans, to take the people captive into Babylon.”
2:8	When Baruch heard these things, he also tore his clothes and said, “Father Jeremiah, who revealed this to you?”
2:9	And Jeremiah said to him, “Wait with me a little while until the sixth hour of the night, so that you may know that this word is true.”
2:10	So they both remained in the altar area, weeping, and their clothes were torn.
3:1	When the hour of the night came, just as the Lord had said to Jeremiah, Jeremiah and Baruch came together to the walls of the city.
3:2	And behold, there was the sound of trumpets, and angels came out of heaven, holding torches in their hands, and they stood upon the walls of the city.
3:3	And when Jeremiah and Baruch saw them, they wept, saying, “Now we know that the word is true.”
3:4	And Jeremiah implored the angels, saying, “I beg you, do not destroy the city yet, until I speak a word to the Lord.”
3:5	And the Lord spoke to the angels, saying, “Do not destroy the city until I speak to my chosen one, Jeremiah.”
3:6	Then Jeremiah spoke, saying, “I beseech you, Lord, command me to speak before you.”
3:7	And the Lord said, “Speak, my chosen one, Jeremiah.”
3:8	And Jeremiah said, “Behold now, Lord, we know that you are delivering the city into the hands of its enemies, and they will take the people away to Babylon.”
3:9	“What do you want me to do with the holy vessels of the ministry?”
3:10	And the Lord said to him, “Take them and deliver them to the earth, saying, ‘Hear, O earth, the voice of your Creator, who formed you in the abundance of waters, who sealed you with seven seals for seven times, and after these things you will receive your beauty;’ ”
3:11	“ ‘preserve the vessels of the ministry until the gathering of the beloved one.’ ”
3:12	And Jeremiah spoke, saying, “I beseech you, Lord, show me what I am to do with Abimelech the Ethiopian, for he performed many good deeds for your servant Jeremiah.”
3:13	For he has drawn me up from the pit of mud, and I do not want him to see the destruction of this city and its desolation, but that you may have mercy on him and that he may not grieve.
3:14	And the Lord said to Jeremiah, “Send him to the vineyard of Agrippa, and in the shadow of the mountain I will cover him until I restore the people to the city.”
3:15	“But you, Jeremiah, depart with your people to Babylon, and remain with them, evangelizing them until I restore them to the city.”
3:16	“But leave Baruch here until I speak with him.”
3:17	After saying these things, the Lord ascended from Jeremiah to heaven.
3:18	And Jeremiah and Baruch entered the sanctuary, and taking up the vessels of the ministry, they delivered them to the earth, just as the Lord had spoken to them.
3:19	And immediately the earth swallowed them up.
3:20	And the two sat down and wept.
3:21	And when morning came, Jeremiah sent Abimelech, saying, “Take the basket, and go to the field of Agrippa by way of the mountain, and bring a few figs, and give them to the sick of the people; for upon you is the joy of the Lord, and upon your head is glory.”
3:22	And after saying these things, Jeremiah dismissed him; and Abimelech went just as he had told him.
4:1	And when morning came, behold, the army of the Chaldeans surrounded the city.
4:2	And the great angel blew the trumpet, saying, “Enter the city, O army of the Chaldeans; for behold, the gate has been opened for you.”
4:3	“Therefore let the king enter with his multitude, and let him take all the people captive.”
4:4	And Jeremiah took the keys of the temple, went out of the city, and threw them before the sun, saying, “I say to you, O sun, take the keys of the temple of God, and keep them until the day on which the Lord will question you concerning them.”
4:5	“For we were not found worthy to guard them, because we became guardians of falsehood.”
4:6	While Jeremiah was still weeping over the people, they brought him out with the people, dragging him to Babylon.
4:7	And Baruch placed dust on his head, and sat down, and wept this lament, saying, “Why has Jerusalem been laid waste? Because of the sins of the beloved people she was delivered into the hands of enemies, because of our sins and those of the people.”
4:8	“But let not the lawless boast and say, ‘We were strong enough to take the city of God by our own power’; but it was because of our sins that she was delivered to you.”
4:9	“But our God will have compassion on us and will restore us to our city; but you will have no life.”
4:10	“Blessed are our fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, because they departed from this world and did not see the destruction of this city.”
4:11	After saying these things, Baruch went out of the city, weeping and saying, “Grieving for you, Jerusalem, I have departed from you.”
4:12	And he remained sitting in a tomb, with angels coming to him and relating to him concerning all things that the Lord revealed to him through them.
5:1	And Abimelech brought the figs in the heat, and coming upon a tree, he sat down under its shade to rest for a short while.
5:2	And laying his head on the basket of figs, he slept for sixty-six years; and he was not awakened from his sleep.
5:3	And after this, having risen from his sleep, he said, “I slept sweetly for a short while, but my head is heavy, for I was not satisfied with my sleep.”
5:4	Then, uncovering the basket of figs, he found them dripping milk.
5:5	And he said, “I wanted to sleep a little longer, because my head is heavy; but I am afraid lest I sleep and be slow to wake up, and Jeremiah my father will be concerned; for if he were not in a hurry, he would not have sent me this morning.”
5:6	“So I will rise and go in the heat; for is there not heat and toil every day?”
5:7	So, rising, he took the basket of figs and placed it on his shoulders; and he entered Jerusalem, and did not recognize it, neither the house nor his own place, nor did he find his own family nor any of his acquaintances.
5:8	And he said, “Blessed be the Lord, for a great trance has fallen upon me today.”
5:9	“This is not the city Jerusalem; I have lost my way, for I came by way of the mountain, having risen from my sleep; and my head being heavy because I was not satisfied with sleep, I have lost my way.”
5:10	“It is marvelous to say this before Jeremiah, that I have lost my way.”
5:11	And he went out of the city; and looking intently, he saw the landmarks of the city, and said, “This is indeed the city, but I have lost my way.”
5:12	And again he returned to the city, and searched, and found none of his own, and said, “Blessed be the Lord, for a great trance has fallen upon me.”
5:13	And again he went out of the city, and remained grieving, not knowing where to go.
5:14	And he put down the basket, saying, “I will sit here until the Lord removes this ecstasy from me.”
5:15	While he was sitting, he saw an old man coming from the field. Abimelech said to him, “I say to you, old man, what city is this?”
5:16	And he said to him, “It is Jerusalem.”
5:17	And Abimelech said to him, “Where is Jeremiah the priest, and Baruch the scribe, and all the people of this city, for I have not found them?”
5:18	And the old man said to him, “Are you not from this city, that you remember Jeremiah today and ask about him after so much time?”
5:19	For Jeremiah is in Babylon with the people; for they were taken captive by Nebuchadnezzar the king, and Jeremiah is with them to preach to them and instruct them in the word.
5:20	But immediately Abimelech, having heard from the old man, said, “If you were not an old man, and because it is not permissible for a man to insult his elder, I would laugh at you and say that you are mad; because you said, ‘The people were taken captive to Babylon.’
5:21	If the cataracts of heaven had come down upon them, it is not yet time for them to go to Babylon.
5:22	For how long has it been since my father Jeremiah sent me to the field of Agrippa to bring a few figs, that we might give them to the sick among the people?
5:23	And I went and brought them, and coming to a certain tree in the heat, I sat down to rest a little, and I laid my head on the basket, and I slept.
5:24	And when I awoke, I uncovered the basket of figs, thinking that I had delayed, and I found the figs dripping milk, just as I had gathered them.
5:25	But you say that the people were taken captive to Babylon.
5:26	So that you may know, take, see the figs.”
5:27	And he uncovered the basket of figs for the old man, and he saw them dripping milk.
5:28	And when the old man saw them, he said, “O my son, you are a righteous man, and God did not wish you to see the desolation of the city; for he brought this ecstasy upon you.
5:29	For behold, it is sixty-six years today since the people were taken captive to Babylon.
5:30	And so that you may learn, child, that what I say to you is true, look up at the field and see that the growth of the produce has not appeared.
5:31	See also the figs, that it is not their season, and know.”
5:32	Then Abimelech cried out with a loud voice, saying, “I will bless you, O God of heaven and earth, the rest of the souls of the righteous in every place.”
5:33	Then he says to the old man, “What month is this?”
5:34	And he said, “Nisan, which is Abib.”
5:35	And taking some of the figs, he gave them to the old man, and says to him, “May God illuminate you to the upper city, Jerusalem.”
6:1	After these things, Abimelech went out of the city and prayed to the Lord.
6:2	And behold, an angel of the Lord came, and taking him by the right hand, brought him back to the place where Baruch was sitting; and he found him in a tomb.
6:3	And when they saw each other, both wept and kissed each other.
6:4	And Baruch, lifting his eyes, saw the figs covered in Abimelech’s basket.
6:5	And lifting his eyes to heaven, he prayed, saying,
6:6	“You are the God who gives recompense to those who love you. Prepare yourself, my heart, and rejoice and exult in your dwelling, saying to your fleshly house, ‘Your sorrow has been turned into joy; for the Capable One is coming, and he will take you up into your dwelling, for no sin has occurred to you.’
6:7	Refresh yourself in your dwelling in your virginal faith and believe that you will live.”
6:8	“Look at this basket of figs; for behold, they have been sixty-six years old, and they have not withered, nor have they become putrid, but they are dripping milk.”
6:9	“Thus will your flesh become for you, if you do what was commanded to you by the angel of righteousness.”
6:10	“He who preserved the basket of figs, he will again preserve you by his power.”
6:11	Having said these things, Baruch says to Abimelech, “Arise, and let us pray, that the Lord may make known to us how we can send the message to Jeremiah in Babylon concerning the protection that happened to you on the way.”
6:12	And Baruch prayed, saying, “Our strength, O Lord God, the chosen light that came forth from your mouth.”
6:13	“We implore and beseech your goodness, O great name, which no one can know, hear the voice of your servants, and become knowledge in our heart.”
6:14	What shall we do, and how shall we send this message to Jeremiah in Babylon?
6:15	While Baruch was still praying, behold, an angel of the Lord came and said all these words to Baruch: “O counselor of light, do not worry about how you will send to Jeremiah. For tomorrow, at the hour of light, an eagle will come to you, and you will visit Jeremiah.”
6:16	Therefore, write in the letter: “Speak to the sons of Israel: Let the one who has become a stranger among you be set apart, and they shall make fifteen days. And after these things, I will bring you into your city,” says the Lord.
6:17	“The one who is not set apart from Babylon will by no means enter the city. And I will forbid them from being accepted again by the Babylonians,” says the Lord.
6:18	And after saying these things, the angel departed from Baruch.
6:19	Then Baruch sent to the market of the Gentiles and brought paper and ink, and he wrote a letter containing the following: “Baruch, the servant of God, writes to Jeremiah in the captivity of Babylon:
6:20	Rejoice and be glad, because God has not abandoned us to depart from this body, grieving because of the city that has been desolated and disgraced.
6:21	Therefore, the Lord had compassion on our tears and remembered the covenant that he made with our fathers Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
6:22	And he sent his angel to me and said to me these words, which I have sent to you.
6:23	So these are the words that the Lord, the God of Israel, who brought us out of the land of Egypt, out of the great furnace, spoke: ‘Because you did not keep my ordinances, but your heart was exalted, and you stiffened your neck before me, in wrath and anger I delivered you to the furnace in Babylon.’
6:24	“‘Therefore, if you listen to my voice,’ says the Lord, ‘from the mouth of Jeremiah my servant, the one who listens—I will bring him up from Babylon. But the one who does not listen will become a stranger to Jerusalem and to Babylon.’
6:25	“You shall test them by the water of the Jordan. The one who does not listen will become manifest. This is the sign of the great seal.”
7:1	And Baruch arose and went out from the tomb and found the eagle sitting outside the tomb.
7:2	And the eagle answered him with a human voice, saying, “Hail, Baruch, steward of the faith.”
7:3	And Baruch said to him, “You are chosen, you who speak among all the birds of the air, for it is evident from the brilliance of your eyes. Show me, then, what are you doing here?”
7:4	And the eagle said to him, “I was sent here so that you may send any message you wish through me.”
7:5	And Baruch said to him, “Can you carry this message to Jeremiah in Babylon?”
7:6	And the eagle said to him, “Indeed, for this very purpose I was sent.”
7:7	And Baruch took the letter and fifteen figs from Abimelech’s basket, and he tied them around the neck of the eagle, and he said to him, “I say to you, king of birds, go in peace with health, and bring me the message.
7:8	Do not be like the raven, which Noah sent out and it did not return again to him in the ark, but be like the dove, which for a third time brought a message to the righteous man.
7:9	Likewise, you, carry this good message to Jeremiah and to the prisoners with him, so that it may be well with you; carry this paper to the people and to the chosen one of God.
7:10	If all the birds of the sky encircle you and wish to wage war with you, contend! May the Lord give you strength.
7:11	And do not turn aside to the right or to the left, but go straight like an arrow. Depart in the power of God, and the glory of the Lord will be with you on every way you go.”
7:12	Then the eagle flew, carrying the letter around its neck, and went to Babylon, and when it arrived, it rested on a certain tree outside the city in a desolate place.
7:13	And it was silent until Jeremiah passed by, for he and some other people were going out to bury a dead person outside the city.
7:14	For Jeremiah had asked King Nebuchadnezzar, saying, “Give me a place where I may bury the dead of my people”; and the king gave it to him.
7:15	As they were going and weeping with the dead, they came opposite the eagle.
7:16	And the eagle cried out with a loud voice, saying, “I say to you, Jeremiah, chosen of God, go, gather the people, and come here so that they may hear the letter that I brought you from Baruch and Abimelech.”
7:17	When Jeremiah heard this, he glorified God; and he went and gathered the people with women and children, and came to where the eagle was.
7:18	And the eagle descended upon the deceased person, and he revived.
7:19	This happened so that they might believe.
7:20	And all the people marveled at what had happened, saying, “Is this not the God who appeared to our fathers in the wilderness through Moses, and now has appeared to us through this eagle?”
7:21	And the eagle said, “I say to you, Jeremiah, come, unbind this letter and read it to the people.” So he unbound the letter and read it to the people.
7:22	And when the people heard, they wept and put dust on their heads, and they said to Jeremiah, “Save us and tell us what we should do so that we may enter our city again.”
7:23	And Jeremiah answered them, “All that you heard from the letter, keep, and the Lord will bring us into our city.”
7:24	And Jeremiah wrote a letter to Baruch, saying thus: “My beloved son, do not neglect your prayers, entreating God on our behalf, so that he may prosper our way until we emerge from the decrees of this lawless king.”
7:25	“For you were found righteous before God, and he did not permit you to come here, so that you might not see the evil that has come upon the people by the Babylonians.”
7:26	“For just as a father, having an only son, when this son is given over to punishment, those who see his father and console him cover his face, so that he may not see how the son himself is punished and suffer more from grief.”
7:27	“In this way, God pitied you and did not permit you to come to Babylon, so that you might not see the evil of the people.”
7:28	“For from the time we came here, grief has not ceased from us, sixty-six years today.”
7:29	“For often, when I went out, I found some of the people hanging by King Nebuchadnezzar, weeping and saying, ‘Have mercy on us, O god Zar!’”
7:30	“Hearing these things, I was grieved and wept a double lamentation, not only because they were hanging, but because they invoked a foreign god, saying, ‘Have mercy on us!’”
7:31	“And I remembered the festival days that we kept in Jerusalem before we were taken captive; and remembering, I groaned, and returned to my house in pain and weeping.”
7:32	“Now therefore, pray in the place where you are, you and Abimelech, for this people, so that they may listen to my voice and the judgments of my mouth, and we may come out from here.”
7:33	“For I tell you that all the time we have spent here, they hold us, saying, ‘Sing us a song from the songs of Zion, the song of your God!’”
7:34	“And we say to them, ‘How can we sing to you while we are in a foreign land?’”
7:35	And after these things, Jeremiah tied the letter to the neck of the eagle, saying, “Go in peace, and may the Lord visit both of us.”
7:36	And the eagle flew, and came to Jerusalem and gave the letter to Baruch, and he untied it and read it and kissed it and wept when he heard it, because of the griefs and evils of the people.
7:37	And Jeremiah took the figs and distributed them to the sick of the people, and he remained teaching them to keep away from the pollutions of the nations of Babylon.
8:1	Now it happened on the day when the Lord brought the people out of Babylon.
8:2	And the Lord said to Jeremiah, “Rise up, you and the people, and come to the Jordan, and you shall say to the people, ‘Whoever desires the Lord, let him abandon the works of Babylon!’”
8:3	“And the males who have taken wives from them, and the women who have taken husbands from them—those who listen to you shall cross over, and bring them to Jerusalem. But those who do not listen to you, do not bring them in there.”
8:4	And Jeremiah spoke these words to the people; and rising up, they came to the Jordan to cross over.
8:5	And as he spoke to them the words which the Lord had spoken to him, half of those who had married from among them did not wish to listen to Jeremiah, but said to him, “We will never abandon our wives, but we will bring them back with us to our city!”
8:6	So they crossed the Jordan and came to Jerusalem.
8:7	And Jeremiah and Baruch and Abimelech stood, saying, “No one who has associated with Babylonians shall enter this city.”
8:8	And they said to themselves, “Let us rise up and return to Babylon to our place”; and they departed.
8:9	And when they came to Babylon, the Babylonians came out to meet them, saying, “You shall not enter our city, because you hated us, and you secretly departed from us; therefore you shall not enter among us.”
8:10	“For we swore an oath to one another by the name of our God, neither to receive you nor your children, since you secretly departed from us.”
8:11	And realizing this, they turned back and came to a deserted place far from Jerusalem, and they built a city for themselves, and they named it Samaria.
8:12	And Jeremiah sent to them, saying, “Repent! For the angel of righteousness is coming, and he will bring you to your lofty place.”
9:1	Now Jeremiah’s people remained rejoicing and offering sacrifices on behalf of the people for nine days.
9:2	On the tenth day, Jeremiah alone offered a sacrifice.
9:3	And he prayed a prayer, saying, “Holy, holy, holy, the incense of the living trees, the true light that enlightens me until I am taken up to you,”
9:4	“for your mercy, I entreat, for the sweet voice of the two Seraphim, I entreat, for another fragrant incense.”
9:5	“And my meditation is Michael, the archangel of righteousness, who opens the gates for the righteous until he brings in the righteous.”
9:6	“I entreat you, Lord Almighty, of all creation, the unbegotten and incomprehensible, to whom all judgment is hidden in him before these things came to be.”
9:7	While Jeremiah was saying these things, and standing at the altar with Baruch and Abimelech, it happened as if one was giving up his soul.
9:8	And Baruch and Abimelech remained weeping and crying out with a loud voice, “Woe to us, for our father Jeremiah, the priest of God, has left us and gone away!”
9:9	And all the people heard their weeping, and all ran to them, and saw Jeremiah lying on the ground as if dead.
9:10	And they tore their garments, and put dust upon their heads, and wept bitterly.
9:11	And after these things, they prepared themselves to bury him.
9:12	And behold, a voice came, saying, “Do not bury him who is still living, for his soul will enter his body again.”
9:13	And hearing the voice, they did not bury him, but remained around his dwelling for three days, saying, “At what hour will he rise?”
9:14	But after three days, his soul entered his body, and he raised his voice among all and said, “Glorify God with one voice; all of you, glorify God and the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who awakens us, the light of all ages, the unquenchable lamp, the life of faith.”
9:15	And after these times, another four hundred and seventy-seven years pass, and he comes to the earth.
9:16	And the tree of life, which was planted in the midst of Paradise, will cause all barren trees to bear fruit, and they will grow and sprout.
9:17	And the trees that have sprouted, and boast mightily, and say, “We have given our produce to the air,” he will cause them to wither with the height of their branches, and he will cause them to be judged, the tree that was established.
9:18	And crimson will become like white wool; snow will turn black; sweet waters will become salty, and salty waters will become sweet in the great light of the joy of God.
9:19	And he will bless the islands to bear fruit by the word of the mouth of his Christ.
9:20	For he himself will come, and he will go forth and choose for himself twelve apostles, that they may preach the gospel among the nations, whom I saw adorned by his Father and coming into the world upon the Mount of Olives; and he will fill the hungry souls.
9:21	While Jeremiah was saying these things about the Son of God, that he is coming into the world, the people became angry and said, “These are again the words spoken by Isaiah, the son of Amos, saying, ‘I saw God and the Son of God.’”
9:22	“Come then, and let us not kill him with his death, but let us stone him with stones.”
9:23	So Baruch and Abimelech were greatly distressed, because they wanted to hear fully the mysteries which he saw.
9:24	But Jeremiah said to them, “Be silent and do not weep, for they will not kill me until I have related to you all that I saw.”
9:25	And he said to them, “Bring me a stone here.”
9:26	And he set it up and said, “O Light of the ages, cause this stone to become like me until I have related all that I saw to Baruch and Abimelech.”
9:27	Then the stone, by God’s command, took on the likeness of Jeremiah.
9:28	And they stoned the stone, thinking that it was Jeremiah.
9:29	But Jeremiah delivered all the mysteries which he saw to Baruch and Abimelech, and then he stood in the midst of the people, wishing to complete his appointed task.
9:30	Then the stone cried out, saying, “O foolish children of Israel, why do you stone me, thinking that I am Jeremiah? Behold, Jeremiah stands in your midst.”
9:31	And when they saw him, they immediately ran to him with many stones, and his appointed task was completed.
9:32	And Baruch and Abimelech came and buried him, and taking the stone, they placed it upon his tomb, inscribing upon it thus: “This is the stone that helped Jeremiah.”
