1:1	A Bishop shall be ordained by two or three Bishops.
2:1	A Presbyter, or Deacon, and the rest of the Clergy, shall be ordained by one Bishop.
3:1	If a Bishop, or Presbyter, or Deacon introduce any thing at the altar besides that which is commanded, that it may be offered for a sacrifice, or that it may be introduced there, as honey, or strong made drink, instead of wine; or milk, or birds; or any other living creatures instead of what the Lord hath commanded, let him be anathematized. It is not lawful to introduce any thing at the altar, except new fruits and grapes in the season thereof, and oil for the holy lamp, and incense at the time of the holy oblation.
4:1	But let all other autumnal fruits of their first-fruits be sent to the house of the Bishop and the Presbyters, but they shall not be introduced upon the altar; but the Bishop shall divide them for himself and the Presbyters, and the rest of the Clergy
4:2	But neither the Bishop nor Presbyter nor Deacon shall put away his wife.
5:1	Let not the Bishop, or Presbyter, or Deacon, put away his wife for the pretext of religion; but if he has put her away, let him be deposed; and if he be unwilling to receive her again, let him be deprived.
6:1	If a Bishop, or Presbyter, or Deacon, shall celebrate the day of the Passover with the Jews, before the time of the vernal equinox, let him be deposed.
7:1	Let not the Bishop, or Presbyter, or Deacon, be disturbed with the cares of the world; but if he has troubled himself with them let him be deposed.
8:1	If a Presbyter, or Deacon, or any other who is wholly among the Clergy does not partake of the Eucharist at the time of assembling, if he mentions the cause, and if it be a proper one, let him be forgiven; if he does not mention the cause let him be suspended, as being the cause of injury to the people, and giving a suspicion to them that they may suspect him who offers the oblation, as not offering rightly.
9:1	And all believers who enter into the church and hear the Holy Scriptures, if they do not remain till they have prayed, and partaken of the Holy Eucharist, and make the prayers of thanksgiving in it, let them be suspended, as causing disorders, which are disturbances in the church.
10:1	If any one prays with one who partakes not of the mystery, even if he is brought into their houses, let that person be suspended.
11:1	If a Clergyman prays with a Clergyman who hath been deposed, as a Clergyman, let him also be deposed.
12:1	If a Clergyman or layman who is suspended goes to a city as being still within the Church, and they shall receive him in the city without commendatory letters, let those who received him, and he that hath been received, be suspended. But if he be suspended, let him remain for a longer time suspended, because he has lied, and has deceived the Holy Church of God.
14:1	It is not lawful for any Bishop to leave his diocese, leaving it for another, even if he is constrained by the multitude, unless it is for some useful cause that he is taken without his consent to do this, that he may be able to benefit those in that place by the word of godliness; and he shall not do this alone, but by the judgment of many Bishops, and a very powerful petition.
15:1	If a Presbyter or Deacon, or any one wholly of those who are numbered in the order of the Clergy, leaves his appointment, and shall go into another region, remaining in that place for a long time of his own accord, without the consent of his Bishop, we command that he no more minister, especially if his Bishop has called upon him to return to his place and he has not obeyed him, to cease in his disorderly conduct, but he shall assemble in that place as a layman.
16:1	But if the Bishop who is in that diocese shall reckon the punishment nothing which we have established against them, receiving them as Clergymen, let him be suspended, as he who has been a teacher of disorder.
17:1	He who has been twice united in marriage after baptism, or who has had a concubine, cannot be a Bishop, or Presbyter, or Deacon, or be numbered wholly in the number of the Priesthood.
18:1	He who shall marry a widow or one who has been divorced, or a harlot, or a maid-servant, or one of those in the scenes of the theatre, or who has married with two sisters, or the daughter of his brother, or the daughter of his sister, cannot be a Bishop, or Presbyter, or Deacon, or be numbered entirely with the Clergy of the Priesthood.
20:1	The Clergyman who shall become a surety, let him be deposed.
21:1	The eunuch, if he have been made an eunuch by the violence of men, or he who was made such in the persecution, or he who was born such, if he be worthy of the Episcopacy, let him be made a Bishop. But if he has mutilated himself, let him not be made a Clergyman, because he is a self-murderer, and an enemy to the creation of God.
23:1	If he who is a Clergyman mutilates himself let him be deprived: he is a murderer of himself.
24:1	The layman who shall mutilate himself, let him be separated three years, for he lays a snare for his own life.
25:1	The Bishop, or Presbyter, or Deacon, who is taken in fornication, or is a false swearer, or a thief, let him be deprived, but not be cast out of the communion, for the Scripture says, " The Lord will not take vengeance twice for the same thing."
26:1	Likewise also the rest of the Clergy. They who are the Readers and the Singers, if they have come into the Clergy before they have married, and they wish to marry, we permit them alone in this, being Readers and Singers, that they marry, but not any other Clergy.
27:1	The Bishop, or Presbyter, or Deacon, who shall strike any believers who sin, or he who is unjust among the unbelievers, and wishes by things of this kind to make men afraid, we command that they be deposed, for the Lord has not taught us this in any place. But he was smitten, and he was quiet; he was reviled, and he reviled not; suffering, he was not angry.
28:1	If a Bishop, or Priest, or Deacon, who has been deposed for manifest crimes, dare to enter in, or to touch at all the ministration which he once had, he shall be cut off entirely from the Church.
29:1	If a Bishop or Deacon shall become a ruler in this dignity by money, or a Presbyter, let him be deposed, and he who set him apart: after they are deposed, they shall not hold communion with him at all, as Simon Magus was by me, Peter.
30:1	If a Bishop shall have the advantage of the rulers of this world, gaining dominion in the church by it, let him be cast out, that he may be deposed, and all those who communicate with him.
31:1	If a Presbyter shall despise his Bishop, and assemble separately, and make to himself another altar, who has not deposed any thing against the honour of his Bishop, either in religion or in justice, let him be deposed as ambitious, he, and all the Clergy who shall follow him, for he is a tyrant. Let the laity also who shall follow him be cast out. And let this be done after the Bishop has forbid him once, and a second, or third time.
32:1	If a Bishop shall suspend a Presbyter, or Deacon, no other Bishop can restore him but with the knowledge that the Bishop who suspended him is dead.
33:1	Let not any one receive any strange Bishop, or Priest, or Deacon, as a Clergyman, without commendations of them. But if they bring letters, let them be examined; and if they are preachers of the truth, let them be received; but if not, they shall receive the things which are necessary, but they shall not commune with them, for many things of this kind are done by surprise.
34:1	It behoves the Bishops of every nation to know who is first among them, that they may place him as their head, and not do any thing without his consent. Let each one do the things only which belong to his province and the countries under his authority. But neither let him who hath been appointed the head over them do any new thing without the consent of all the Bishops, for thus there will be unanimity, and God the Father will be glorified, and Christ Jesus, and the Holy Spirit.
35:1	Let not the Bishop dare to ordain without his province, in cities or countries that are not under him. But if he be convicted that he has done this, without the consent of him who hath the power over that city, or the countries, let him be deposed, he, and those whom he has ordained.
36:1	And if any one who hath been ordained Bishop, will not be persuaded to be in the ministry, or to take care of the people committed to him, he shall be suspended until he is persuaded. Likewise the Presbyter, or the Deacon. But if when he has gone they will not receive him, not because this is his own will, but it is of the wickedness of the people, let him remain a Bishop, but let the Clergy of the city be suspended, because they have not taught this people that they should not thus refuse him.
37:1	Let there be an assembly of the Bishops twice in a year, and let them examine among themselves concerning the doctrines of piety, and they shall solve the controversies which exist in the church. The first assembly shall be in the fourth week of the Pentecost; the second shall be in the twelfth of Paopi (October.)
38:1	Let the Bishop have the care of all the things of the church, and let him administer them as in the presence of God. It is not lawful for him to take away any thing from them as profitable for himself alone, or that he should give of the things of God to his relations. But if they be poor, let him support them as poor, but let him not trade with the things of the church under that pretext.
39:1	Let not the Presbyters, or Deacons, do any thing without the consent of their Bishop, for he it is who is entrusted with the people of the Lord, and he also shall give an account for their souls.
40:1	The goods which the Bishop hath, shall be evident, if he have any of his own, and those of the Lord shall be evident; that when the Bishop shall die, he may have power over those which are his own, to do what he will; and that not any thing of the Bishop's may be scattered, under pretext of the things of the church: for often the Bishop has a wife and children, or relations, or servants. For it is just before God and men that the church should not suffer the loss of those things which are its own, because they know not what are the things of the Bishop; nor again that the Bishop or his relations shall be proscribed under pretence of the things of the church. And that those who are reputed his may not come into great trouble, and blaspheme at his death.
41:1	And we command that the Bishop rule over the Church and her goods; for if he be entrusted with the precious souls of men, much more therefore with the emoluments which have been committed to him; and so as to administer them all according to his authority, dividing to those who are in want out of them, through the Presbyters and Deacons, in the fear of God, and with trembling. And he also receiving out of them those things which he has need of, if he indeed needs the same; and taking something for the necessity of the strange brethren, who shall receive hospitality from him, so that they may not want any thing, in any manner. For the law of God hath commanded, that " those who wait at the altar should eat from the altar; since, not any soldier fights against the enemies of the king at his own charges.
42:1	The Bishop, or Presbyter, or Deacon, who indulges in dice, and luxury, and drinking, let him cease from them, or let him be deposed.
43:1	And the Sub-deacon, or Reader, or Singer, who shall do so, let them cease, or let them be cast out: likewise the laity after the same manner.
44:1	The Bishop, or Presbyter, or Deacon, who shall demand usury of those who are debtors to him, let him be cast out.
45:1	The Bishop, or Presbyter, or Deacon, who shall pray with heretics, let him be suspended; but if they have done this to minister as Clergymen, let them be deposed.
46:1	The Bishop, or Presbyter, or Deacon, who shall go to the baptism of heretics, or to their sacrifice, let him be deposed. For what fellowship hath Christ with Belial, or what part hath a believer with an infidel?
51:1	If a Bishop, or Presbyter, or Deacon, or other one wholly among the Clergy of the Priesthood abstains from marriage, and flesh, or wine, not for exercise, but as if they are unclean, forgetting what is written, that "God saw every thing which he had made, and behold it was very good; " also, that "God made man male and female;" and thus blaspheming, despises the creation of God, let him be reformed, or let him be deposed, and he shall be cast out of the Church: this likewise is equally for the laity.
52:1	If a Bishop, or Presbyter, or Deacon, will not receive him who has turned from his sin, but rejects him, let him be deposed, because he has grieved Christ, who says, " There is joy likewise in heaven over a sinner, when he repents."
53:1	If a Bishop, or Presbyter, or Deacon, does not receive a little flesh, and will not drink a little wine on the festival days, let him be deposed, as having a seared conscience: they have been the cause by which many have been offended.
54:1	If any of the Clergy go into a tavern, eating, or drinking, let him be suspended, except in an inn, or on a journey, on account of a necessity which befalls them.
55:1	If any of the Clergy insult the Bishop, let him be deposed; for it is said, "Thou shalt not speak evil of the ruler of thy people."
56:1	If a layman insult a Presbyter, or a Deacon, let him be suspended.
57:1	If a Presbyter, or a Clergyman, mock a deaf man, or lame, or blind, or a cripple, let him be suspended. The like also to a layman who shall do so.
58:1	A Bishop, or Presbyter, who neglects the Clergy, or the laity, and does not instruct them in the service of God, let him be suspended; and if he continue in his negligence, let him be deposed.
59:1	If a Bishop, or a Presbyter, or Deacon, neglect one of the Clergy, being in want, and giveth him not what he hath need of, let him be suspended; and if he remain forgetful, let him be deposed, as a committer of fratricide.
60:1	If any one make known books in the church as holy, which the ungodly have falsely written, ensnaring the people and the Clergy, let him be deposed.
61:1	If there be an accusation against a believer for fornication, or adultery, or any other thing, as of much drink, and he be convicted, let him not be made a Clergyman.
62:1	If a Clergyman shall deny for fear of men, whether of a Jew, or a Greek, or an heretic; and if he has denied the name of Christ, let him be cast out. And if he has denied the name of a Clergyman, let him be deposed. But if he repent, let him be received as a layman.
63:1	If a Presbyter, or a Deacon, or one entirely of the Clergy of the Priesthood, shall eat flesh with the blood of the life thereof, or that which a wild beast hath destroyed, or that which hath died, let him be deposed, for this is what the law has forbidden. If he be a layman, let him be suspended.
64:1	If a Clergyman, or layman, shall enter into the synagogue of the Jews, or the place of the heretics to pray, let the Clergyman be deposed, and let the layman be suspended.
65:1	If a Clergyman shall contend with one, beating him in the contention, and he hath died with one blow, let him be deposed for his violence. But if he be a layman, let him be suspended.
66:1	If a Clergyman be found fasting on the Lord's holy day, or on the Saturday, except only on the great Sabbath of the Passover, let him be deposed.
67:1	And if a layman shall take a virgin by violence, lying with her before she is betrothed, let him be suspended. It is not lawful for him to take another woman, but he shall remain with her whom he has humbled, although she is poor.
68:1	If a Presbyter, or a Deacon, shall receive a second ordination, let him be deposed, he, and the person who ordained him; unless the thing is evident that he was ordained by the heretics. For it is not possible that those who have been baptized or ordained by them can ever be faithful men, or Clergymen.
69:1	If a Bishop, or Presbyter, or Deacon, or Sab-deacon, or Reader, or Singer, does not fast on the forty holy days, or on the fourth, or on the sixth day of the week, let him be deposed, unless sickness of body prevent them: or if he be a layman who has done this, let him be suspended.
70:1	If a Bishop, or Presbyter, or any other of the Clergy keeps fast with the Jews, or keeps feast with them, or receives from them gifts of their feast, as unleavened bread, or any such thing, let him be deposed: if he be a layman who has done this, let him be suspended.
71:1	If a layman take oil into a heathen temple, or synagogue of the Jews, or lamps, let him be suspended.
72:1	If a Clergyman, or layman, steals a vessel, or oil from the church, let him be suspended, and he shall restore what he has stolen, and five -fold to it.
73:1	Let not any man take a vessel of gold, or a vessel of silver, or a garment of linen which has been sanctified, to use it for himself; for this thing is contrary to law. But if any one has done this, let him be suspended and rebuked.
74:1	If a Bishop be accused of any thing by men faithful and credible, it is necessary that he should be summoned by the Bishops. If he comes and confesses his sin of which he is accused, let them appoint him the punishment which he deserves. If when he is summoned he does not obey, let him be summoned a second time, by two Bishops sent to him: and if again he does not obey, they shall summon him a third time, by two other Bishops sent to him: and if he does not obey, thus despising the truth, let the Synod pronounce what sentence they please against him, that he may not appear as he who has gained, because he has fled from the judgment.
75:1	A heretic shall not be received to bear testimony against a Christian; but neither again shall one Christian be received. " By the mouth of two or three witnesses every word shall be established."
76:1	A Bishop must not gratify his brother, or his son, or any other of his relations, or to ordain whom he will to the Episcopal dignity; for it is not just to constitute heirs to the Episcopacy, gratifying human affections with the things of God. For it is not right for him to put the Church of God under the laws of inheritance. But if any one shall do this, the ordination shall be void, and let him be punished with excommunication.
77:1	If any one be wounded in his eye, or wounded in his foot, being worthy of the Episcopacy, let him be made one; for an injury of the body cannot defile him, but it is the pollution of the soul.
78:1	He who is deaf, or blind, let him not be made a Bishop: not because he is defiled, but that the things of the Church be not dispersed.
79:1	He who has a devil, let him not be made a Clergyman, neither let him pray with the believers: but when he is cleansed let him be received; and if he be worthy, let him be made a Clergyman.
80:1	He who has come in from a heathen life, or he who has come in from any other evil course of life, and who has received baptism, it is not just that he should immediately be made a Bishop. For it is not right that he who has not been tried in any thing, should be a teacher of others; unless indeed this should be to him by the grace of God.
81:1	We have said that it is not right for a Bishop to place himself in the administration of public affairs, but to attend upon the affairs of the church. But if not, let him leave the Bishopric. For it is not possible for any one to serve two masters, according to the precept of the Lord.
82:1	We do not permit that servants be made Clergymen without the consent of their masters, that their makers be not grieved; for such a thing produces ruin in houses. If a servant appear at any time worthy of the honour of ordination, such as our Onesimus manifested, and his masters allow it, and make him free, and send him from their house, let him be made one.
83:1	The Bishop, or Presbyter, or Deacon, who serves in the army, and desires to do both, that is, to retain the magistracy of the Romans, and the service of the Priesthood, it is right to depose him. For the Lord said, " Render to the king the things of the king, and to God, the things of God."
84:1	Whosoever shall revile the king, or a ruler unjustly, let him be punished: and if he be a Clergyman, let him be deposed. If he be a layman let him be suspended.
85:1	And let all these books be to you precious and holy, to you Clergy and the laity together; which are these: —
85:2	Of the Old Testament, the five Books of Moses, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy; Joshua the son of Nun; the Book of Judges; and Ruth; the four Books of Kings; the first and the second are one Book, the third and the fourth are the other Book: the two of the Chronicles of the Kings; the first discourse of Esdra, and his second, one Book; Judith, and Tobit; the Book of Job; the Book of Psalms, making 151; the Proverbs of Solomon; the Ecclesiastes; the Song of Songs; the twelve lesser Prophets; the four greater Prophets, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel. These also let your young persons learn. And out of the Wisdom of Solomon; and Esther; the three Books of the Maccabees; the Wisdom of the Son of Sirach, there is much instruction.
85:3	And our Books also, we the Apostles, are those of the New Testament; the Four Gospels, as we first spoke, according to Matthew, according to Mark, according to Luke, according to John; our Acts of us the Apostles; the two Epistles of Peter; the three of John; the Epistle of James; and that of Jude; the fourteen Epistles of Paul; the Apocalypse of John; the two Epistles of Clemens, which you read out of.
85:4	These are the things which we command to you, O Bishops, concerning the Canons; and if you continue in them you shall be saved, and shall have peace for ever. But if you shall disobey them, you shall be mocked, and you shall have war with one another for ever. You shall be mourned for, after you have received the punishment suitable to your disobedience.
85:5	The only true God, and his only-begotten Son Jesus Christ our Lord, and the Holy Spirit, the universal quickener, and the creator, shall make you one in his peace, directing you into all good, that you may be perfect, without condemnation, unreproveable, making you worthy of a place in life for ever, by Jesus Christ our Lord, the God of truth, and our Saviour, to whom be all glory, with his good Father, and the Holy Spirit, the quickener, and of the same essence, for ever and ever. Amen.
