1:1	and of the things concerning the first human, and of the times until him, and concerning the lawgiving that was about to be given by him to the nation of the Jews.
2:1	...being taught by the archangel Gabriel concerning the creation of the world...
2:2	For on the first day he made the upper heavens, the earth, the waters—from which come snow and ice and hail and frost and dew—the spirits ministering before him, which are these: angels of the presence, and angels of glory, and angels of the blowing winds, angels of clouds and gloom, of snow and hail and frost, angels of sounds, thunders, lightnings, cold, heat, winter, autumn, spring, and summer, and of all the spirits of his creatures in heaven and on earth; the abysses, both that beneath the earth and that of chaos; and darkness, evening and night, and the light of day and morning dawn.
2:3	These seven greatest works God made on the first day.
2:4	And on the second, the firmament in the midst of the waters, and the division of the waters above the firmament and those beneath the firmament upon the face of all the earth. This single work God made on the second day.
2:5	And on the third day...
2:7	...the seas, the rivers, the springs and lakes, the seeds for sowing, the sprouting plants, the fruit-bearing trees and the barren ones, the forests, and all the plants according to their kind. These four greatest works God made on the third day.
2:8	And on the fourth, the sun, the moon, the stars and the positions of the stars, and the elements...
2:10	...these three great works God made on the fourth day.
2:11	And on the fifth, the great sea creatures, the fish, and the other creeping things in the waters, the birds, the winged creatures.
2:12	...these three great works God made on the fifth day.
2:13	And on the sixth day, the wild beasts, the cattle, the creeping things of the earth,
2:14	...man, both the first man and those after him. These four great works God made on the sixth day.
2:15	And all the works made by God in the six days amounted to twenty-two.
2:16	And God completed all things on the sixth day, all that is in the heavens and on the earth, in the seas and in the abysses, in the light and in the darkness, and in all things.
2:17	And God rested from all his works on the seventh day...
2:19	...and he blessed it and sanctified it, and made known through an angel to Moses that...
2:20	'And I will choose for myself from his seed a special people out of all the nations...'
2:23	...and twenty-two heads from Adam until Jacob.
2:24	...it also was blessed by God and sanctified, and was named Sabbath as a day of rest, and as a type of the seventh millennium and of the consummation of sinners...
3:1	On the first day of the week, which was the third day of the formation of Adam, the eighth of the first month Nisan, the first of the month of April, and the sixth of Pharmouthi among the Egyptians, Adam named the wild beasts by a certain divine gift. On the second day of the second week he named the cattle. On the third day of the second week he named the birds. On the fourth day of the second week he named the creeping things. On the fifth day of the second week he named the swimming creatures...
3:5	On the sixth day of the second week, which was according to the Romans the sixth of April, and according to the Egyptians the eleventh of Pharmouthi, God took a part of Adam's rib and formed the woman...
3:9	On the forty-sixth day of the creation of the world, the fourth day of the seventh week, the fourteenth of Pachon, the ninth of May, when the sun was in Taurus and the moon diametrically in Scorpio, at the rising of the Pleiades, God brought Adam into Paradise on the fortieth day of his formation. On the eighth day of the creation of the world, and the forty-fourth of the formation of Adam, on the Lord's day, the eighteenth of Pachon, the thirteenth of May, three days after his entrance into Paradise, when the sun was in Taurus and the moon in Capricorn, God commanded Adam to abstain from eating of the tree of knowledge. On the ninety-third day of the creation, the second day of the fourteenth week, at the summer solstice, when both the sun and the moon were in Cancer, on the twenty-fifth of the month of June, the first of Epiphi, Adam's helper Eve was brought by God into Paradise, on the eightieth day of her formation.
3:10	For this reason God commanded through Moses in Leviticus—namely, on account of the days after their formation during which they were separated from Paradise—that in the case of bearing a male, she should be unclean for forty days,
3:11	and in the case of bearing a female, up to eighty days. For Adam was brought into Paradise on the fortieth day of his formation, for which reason they also bring newborns into the temple on the fortieth day according to the law; but in the case of a female, that she should be unclean for eighty days, both because of her entrance into Paradise on the eightieth day and because of the uncleanness of the female compared to the male.
3:13	For when she is in her menstrual impurity, she does not enter into the temple for seven days according to the divine law.
3:16	Adam drove away the birds and creeping things, gathered the fruit in Paradise, and ate it together with his wife.
3:21	...that Adam unexpectedly took from the tree and ate, and did not pay attention at all to the word of Eve, because he was faint from both toil and hunger.
3:23	The serpent became a creeping thing instead of a beast; it possessed hands and feet, but was deprived of them because it entered boldly into Paradise and because it was the first to take and eat from the tree.
3:28	...the beasts and the four-footed animals and the creeping things... were of one language with the first-formed humans before the transgression; because... the serpent spoke with a human voice to Eve...
3:32	In the seventh year he transgressed, and in the eighth they were cast out of Paradise... forty-five days after the transgression, at the rising of the Pleiades. And Adam spent in Paradise a week of days of three hundred and sixty-five days. And he was cast out with his wife Eve because of the transgression on the tenth of the month of May.
3:33	whom Adam received and named Eve, which is interpreted 'life.'
3:34	In the eighth year... Adam knew Eve his wife.
4:1	In the seventieth year their firstborn son Cain was born to them. In the seventy-seventh year... righteous Abel was born. In the eighty-fifth year a daughter was born to them, and they named her Asuam. In the ninety-seventh year Cain made an offering. In the ninety-ninth year Abel offered a sacrifice to God, being in his twenty-second year, at the full moon of the seventh month among the Hebrews, that is, at the Feast of Tabernacles... the fruit offering sacrifice of Cain...
4:2	In the same ninety-ninth year Cain killed Abel, and the first-formed mourned for him four week-periods, that is, twenty-eight years.
4:7	In the one hundred and twenty-seventh year, Adam and Eve put away their mourning.
4:9	In the one hundred and thirty-fifth year, Cain took his own sister Asuna, who was fifty years old, while he himself was sixty-five years old; Cain [was married] to the elder sister, called Saue.
4:10	And there were also born to Adam other sons . . . nine after these three, so that he had two daughters and twelve males, one who had been killed and eleven who survived in life.
4:11	And Seth, the third son born after Abel, [was married] to his sister who was called Azura.
4:13	The wife of Enosh was Noah, his sister.
4:14	The wife of Cainan was Maolith, his sister.
4:15	The wife of Mahalalel was Dinah, the daughter of Barachiel, his father's brother. From then on malice began to arise in the world: from the beginning indeed through Adam's disobedience, and then through Cain's fratricide, but now in the times of Jared and onward, sorcery and magic, licentiousness, adultery, and unrighteousness.
4:16	The wife of Jared was Barakah, the daughter of Asuel, his father's brother.
4:17	and arithmetic and geometry and all wisdom . . .
4:18	This one (Enoch) was the first to learn writing and to teach it, and he was deemed worthy of the revelation of divine mysteries.
4:20	The wife of Enoch was Eani, the daughter of Daniel, his father's brother.
4:23	(Enoch) was caught up into Paradise.
4:27	The wife of Methuselah was Edna, the daughter of Ezriel, his father's brother.
4:28	The wife of Lamech was Betenos, the daughter of Barachiel, his father's brother.
4:31	In the same 930th year Cain also died when his house collapsed upon him; for he too had killed Abel with stones. Therefore, when a year was completed after the death of Adam, he died.
4:33	The wife of Noah was Emzara, the daughter of Barachiel, his father's brother.
5:22	The ark of God came to us . . . on the fifth of the fifth month.
7:1	In this 2251st year . . . Noah planted a vineyard on Mount Lubar in Armenia.
8:2	In the 2585th year, Cainan, traveling through the plain,
8:3	found the writing of the Giants and hid it with himself.
8:5	The wife of Cainan was Melcha, the daughter of Madai, the son of Japheth.
8:6	The wife of Shelah was Moacha, the daughter of Keedam, his father's brother.
8:7	The wife of Eber was Azurah, the daughter of Nimrod.
10:1	After the flood, in the 2582nd year of the world, moved by envy, (the Watchers) after death led astray the sons of Noah;
10:2	and when Noah prayed that they might depart from them,
10:7	the Lord commanded the archangel Michael to cast them into the abyss until the day of judgment;
10:8	but the devil requested to receive a portion of them for the temptation of humankind,
10:9	and a tenth of them was given to him by divine command, so as to tempt humankind for the testing of each person's disposition toward God, while the remaining nine parts were cast into the abyss.
10:18	The wife of Peleg was Dymna, the daughter of Shinar.
10:21	For 43 years they continued building. The height was 5,433 cubits and two spans; the breadth was 203 bricks; the height of a brick was the third of a brick; {the extent of the one wall was} 13 stadia, {and of the other} 30.
10:24	they were confounded, having been divided into many languages by God. But he (Nimrod) remained living there and not departing from the tower, ruling over a certain portion of the multitude,
10:26	upon whom the tower, having fallen by a violent wind . . . by divine judgment struck him down.
11:1	Reu, having become one hundred and thirty-two years old, fathered Serug.
11:2	In his time, men increased their arrogance against one another, and they established commanders and kings for themselves. And then for the first time they manufactured instruments of war and began to wage war against one another.
11:7	The wife of Seruch was Melcha, daughter of Chaber, his father’s brother.
11:8	And when Nahor grew up, his father taught him the interpretation of all omens, the discernment of the signs in the sky and of all things on the earth, and all Chaldean divination.
11:9	The wife of Nahor was Iestha, daughter of Nestha the Chaldean.
11:14	And Nahor, when he was seventy-nine years old, fathered Tharra. And when Ninus, the first king of the Assyrians, was in the forty-third year of his reign, Abraham was born. . . . And Tharra, when he was seventy years old, fathered Abraham by his wife Edna, daughter of Abraham, his father’s brother, whom his mother named after her own father; for he had already died before his birth.
11:16	And being beloved of God, and not consenting to allow his mind to dwell on created things,
11:17	but having been led up from the beauty of created things to the Creator, he was deemed worthy of divine illumination, while he was still dwelling in his homeland . . .
12:9	Sarah was the daughter of Harran, sister of Melcha and of Lot . . .
12:12	In the 3373rd year of the world, when Abraham was sixty-one years old, Abraham set fire to the idols of his father,
12:14	and Harran was burned up along with them while trying to extinguish the fire by night. And Thara went out with Abraham to go into the land of Canaan, and changing his mind, he settled in Charran, mad after idols until his death.
12:26	The angel who was speaking to Moses said to him: “I taught Abraham the Hebrew language according to that from the beginning of creation, to speak all the ancestral words . . .”
15:17	This Abraham, at one hundred years old, fathered Isaac.
16:9	From Lot came the Moabites and Ammonites, an accursed seed from an unlawful union.
16:10	After these things, Abraham departed from the oak at Mamre and encamped at the Well of the Oath.
16:21	Having pitched tents for himself privately and for his servants according to their kinships, then for the first time Abraham celebrated the Feast of Booths for seven days . . .
16:31	Abraham was the first to encircle the altar with branches of palm trees and olive trees.
17:15	. . . that Isaac was twenty-five years old . . . when he was led up for sacrifice.
17:16	Mastipham, the ruler of the demons, . . . approached God and said, “If Abraham loves you, let him sacrifice his son to you.”
18:13	. . . that Abraham built in that place where David later established the sanctuary.
19:11	Abraham fathered again by his last wife, Keturah, five sons.
19:13	And Isaac was sixty years old when he fathered Jacob.
22:4	Rebecca, having made cakes, . . . gave them to Jacob and brought him with other gifts to Isaac. And Isaac blessed him, and while blessing him in many ways and holding him in his bosom, he died, Abraham having fallen asleep in the fifteenth year of the life of Jacob.
26:34	Isaac said to Esau in the blessings: “And it shall be, whenever you cast down and loosen his yoke from your neck.”
29:12	In the 153rd year of Isaac, Jacob returned to him from Mesopotamia.
31:9	And Isaac looked up and saw the sons of Jacob,
31:14	he blessed Levi as high priest,
31:18	and Judah as king and ruler.
35:9	Rebecca asked Isaac in his old age to exhort Esau and Jacob to love one another.
36:1	And having exhorted them, he foretold that
36:9	“if Esau rises up against Jacob, he will fall into his hands.”
37:1	Therefore, after Isaac died, Esau, incited by his sons,
37:9	and having gathered nations, came against Jacob and his sons for war.
37:17	And Jacob, having shut the gates of the fortress, implored Esau to remember their parents’ commandments.
37:18	But since he would not yield, but was insolent and reproachful,
38:1	Jacob, being pressed by Judah,
38:2	He bent his bow, and striking Esau upon his right breast, he brought him down.
38:3	And when he died, the sons of Jacob opened the gates and killed most of them.
46:3	Joseph was sold at seventeen years of age, and he spent three years as a slave, and three years in the prison, and eighty as ruler of all the land of Egypt.
46:14	For they ordered them to cut the river into very many canals, and to build walls for the cities and raise up embankments so that by them the river might be restrained from flooding, and to erect pyramids; and with these tasks they wore out the Hebrews.
47:3	For only ten months were the infants of the Israelites cast into the river, until Moses was taken up by the queen.
47:5	And having been adopted as a son by Pharaoh's daughter Thermouthis, who was also called Pharia, being queen, and having been trained in all the learning of the Egyptians as a queen's son, he might rightly be called according to the world 'a king from water' . . .
48:1	And Moses, having left behind his way of life in Egypt, lived philosophically in the wilderness, being taught by the archangel Gabriel concerning the creation of the world . . .
48:5	In the 144th year of the servitude in Egypt, the Egyptians began to receive the ten plagues: in the month of June the waters were changed into blood; in July, frogs; in August, gnats; in September, dog-flies; in October, the death of livestock; in November, blisters and sores; in December, hail; in January, locusts; in February, darkness for three days; in March, the firstborn. On the fourteenth of this month, having plundered the Egyptians, they went out, having done this by God's command.
48:14	They were destroyed in the sea in the very manner that they had drowned the infants of the Hebrews in the river, a thousand mighty Egyptian men being drowned for every single Israelite infant.
