13:10	… And he dwelt there for two years. And he moved on from there toward the south as far as Bealoth, and a famine arose over the land.
13:11	And Abram went into Egypt in the third year of the week, and he dwelt in the land of Egypt five years before his wife was taken from him.
13:12	And Tanis, a city of Egypt, was built at that time, seven years after Hebron.
13:13	And it came to pass, when Pharaoh had taken Sarah the wife of Abram, the Lord afflicted Pharaoh and his house with great afflictions on account of Sarah the wife of Abram.
13:14	And then Abram was greatly magnified with riches, with all kinds of sheep and oxen and donkeys and camels and horses and male servants and female servants, and with very much silver and gold. And indeed Lot, his brother’s son, also had riches.
13:15	And Pharaoh returned Sarah, the wife of Abram, to her husband, and sent him away from the land of Egypt. And he came to the place where he had pitched his tent at first, to the place of the altar, with Ai to the east and Bethel to the west; and he blessed the Lord his God who had brought him back in peace.
13:16	And it came to pass in the forty-first jubilee, in the third year of the first week, he returned to this place and offered burnt offerings, and called upon the name of the Lord: 'You are the Most High God, my God forever and ever.'
13:17	And in the fourth year of this week, Lot separated from him and dwelt in Sodom. And the men of Sodom were exceedingly sinful and wicked in their hearts.
13:18	… because Lot, his brother’s son, separated from him, for he had no sons.
13:19	Lot was taken captive away from him. But in the fourth year of this week of this jubilee, God said to Abram: 'Lift up your eyes from the place where you are sitting, to the west and to the south and to the east and to the north.
13:20	For all the land which you see, to you and to your seed I will give it forever. And I will make your seed like the sand of the sea, so that your seed will not be numbered.
13:21	And you, arise, walk through its breadth and see all of it, because to your seed I will give it.' And Abram went to Hebron and dwelt there …
15:20	… him, and I will multiply him and increase him exceedingly. For he will father twelve princes, and I will make him into a great nation.
15:21	And my covenant I will establish with Isaac, whom Sarah shall bear to you at this season in the coming year.
15:22	And he finished speaking with him, and God went up from Abraham.
15:23	And Abraham did just as God had said to him, and he took Ishmael his son and all who were born in his house and those bought with money—every male in his house—and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin at that time.
15:24	And Abraham circumcised himself on that day, and all those born in his house, his household servants, and those bought with money from among foreigners, he circumcised them all.
15:25	This law is for all the generations of eternity, and there is no passing over even one day of the days, because it is commanded as an eternal ordinance and written on the heavenly tablets:
15:26	That everyone born whose flesh of his foreskin has not been circumcised by the eighth day does not belong to the covenant which God covenanted with Abraham, because he belongs to the children of destruction; and there is no longer any sign upon him that he belongs to God, but of destruction and ruin from the earth, because he has broken the covenant of the Lord our God.
15:27	For all the angels of the presence and all the archangels of blessing from the days of their creation before the angels of the presence and the angels of sanctification—he sanctified Israel that it might be together with him and with the angels of his holy ones.
15:28	And you, command the children of Israel that they keep the covenant of this sign throughout their generations as an eternal covenant, and they will not be destroyed from the land.
15:29	Because he ordained in the decree of the covenant that it be kept forever over all the children of Israel.
15:30	For Ishmael and his sons and his brothers and Esau, God did not bring near to himself and did not choose from among them, though they too are among the sons of Abraham as he knew them; but he chose Israel that they might be a people for him.
15:31	And he sanctified him and …
16:6	For in this way God will execute judgment in the places wherever they commit the abomination of the Sodomites; thus will he judge them.
16:7	And we delivered Lot from there because God was mindful of Abraham, to deliver him from the midst of the overthrow.
16:8	For he and his daughters committed an iniquity upon the earth such as had not been done in all the earth from the days of Adam until him, that a man should sleep with his daughters.
16:9	For behold, it has been commanded and written for all seed on the heavenly tablets that such as these be taken away and destroyed, and that their judgment be according to the judgment of the Sodomites, so that no seed of man among them may be left on the earth on the day of judgment.
16:10	And in this month Abraham went out from Hebron, and went and dwelt between Kadesh and Shur in the borders of Gerar.
16:11	And in the middle of the fifth month he moved from there and dwelt beside the Well of the Oath.
16:12	And in the middle of the sixth month God visited Sarah and did for her as he had spoken.
16:13	And she conceived and bore a son in the seventh month, in the middle of the month, at the time which God had spoken to Abraham; on the festival day of firstfruits Isaac was born.
16:14	And Abraham circumcised his son on the eighth day; he was the first to be circumcised according to the covenant ordained forever.
16:15	And in the sixth year of the fourth week we came to Abraham beside the Well of the Oath, and we appeared to him as we had told Sarah, that we would return to her and she would have conceived her son.
16:16	And we returned in the seventh month and found Sarah pregnant in our presence. And we blessed him and announced to him everything that had been decreed concerning him, and how he would die, and that he would yet father six sons and would see them all before he died. But in Isaac will the name be multiplied and called.
16:17	And all the seed of his sons will be nations, and they will be counted among the nations; but from the sons of Isaac one will become a holy seed, and he will not be reckoned among the nations,
16:18	for he will be in the portion of the Most High, since all his seed has fallen into the possession of God, to be for God a sanctified people out of all his nations, and that it may be a priestly kingdom and a holy nation.
16:19	And we went on our way, and we announced to Sarah everything we had announced to him; and they both rejoiced with great joy.
16:20	And he built there an altar to the Lord who had delivered him and had shown grace to him in the land of his dwelling. And he made a festival of joy in this month for seven days beside the altar,
16:21	and he built booths for himself and for his servants during this feast. And he was the first to observe the feast of booths upon the earth.
16:22	And in those days he used to offer each day on the altar a fruit offering to the Lord: two calves, two rams, seven sheep, and one male goat for sin, to make atonement with it for himself and for his seed.
16:23	And as a peace offering: seven rams, seven kids, seven sheep, and seven he-goats, along with their grain offerings and their wine; and he burned all their fat upon the altar, a sacrifice of sweet aroma.
16:24	And morning and evening he burned compounded incense: frankincense, galbanum, stacte, nard, myrrh, spikenard, and costus—these seven pure spices he burned, chopped and mixed in equal parts.
16:25	And he celebrated this festival for seven days, feasting with all his heart and with all his soul, he and all his household; and no foreigner was with them, nor any uncircumcised person.
16:26	And he blessed his Creator who had created him, because he knew and understood that from him would come the planting of truth for eternal generations, and from him a holy seed, so that it might be like him who created all things.
16:27	And he blessed and rejoiced, and he called the name of this festival 'a feast day of delight, acceptable to God Most High.'
16:28	And we blessed him forever and his seed with him throughout all generations of the whole earth, because he observed this festival in its season according to the testimony of the heavenly tablets.
16:29	Therefore it is decreed in the heavenly tablets concerning Israel that there should be a feast of booths for seven days wholly in joy in the seventh month, acceptable before the Lord as an everlasting statute throughout their generations, year by year.
16:30	And there will be no end of days, for it is ordained for Israel forever to celebrate it and to dwell in booths, and to place wreaths upon their heads, taking leafy boughs and willows from the brook.
16:31	And Abraham took the beauty of palm branches and the fruit of goodly trees, and each day he would go around the altar with the branches seven times in the morning, praising and giving thanks to his God for everything in joy.
17:1	And in the first year of the fifth week in this jubilee Isaac was weaned, and Abraham made a great feast in the third month on the day his son Isaac was weaned.
17:2	And Ishmael, the son of Hagar the Egyptian maidservant, was in his place before Abraham his father. And Abraham rejoiced and blessed God because he saw sons born to him and had not died without children.
17:3	And he remembered the words which he had spoken to him on the day when Lot separated from him. And he rejoiced because God had given him seed on the earth to inherit it, and with all his mouth he blessed the one who created all things.
17:4	And Sarah saw Ishmael playing with Isaac, and Abraham rejoicing with great joy; and she was jealous of Ishmael and said to Abraham, 'Cast out this maidservant and her son, for the son of this maidservant shall not inherit with my son Isaac.'
17:5	And the matter seemed very evil in Abraham's eyes on account of the maidservant and on account of her son, that he should cast them out from him.
17:6	And God said to Abraham: [...]
18:10	And he was troubled and said, 'Here I am.'
18:11	And I said to him, 'Do not lay your hand upon the boy, and do not do anything to him; for now I have shown that you fear your God, and you have not withheld your firstborn son from me.'
18:12	And the prince Mastema was put to shame. And Abraham, lifting up his eyes, looked, and behold, a single ram was caught by its horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up instead of his son Isaac.
18:13	And Abraham called the name of that place 'The Lord Has Seen,' so that it is said on the mountain, 'The Lord was seen'—this is Mount Zion.
18:14	And he called Abraham by his name a second time from heaven, for we were there to speak to him in the name of the Lord.
18:15	And he said, ''By myself I have sworn,' says the Lord, 'because you have done this thing and have not withheld your only son on my account, whom you loved, I will surely bless you and I will surely multiply your seed like the stars of heaven and like the sand which is upon the seashore. And your seed shall inherit the cities of its adversaries.'
18:16	'And in your seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice; and I have shown to all that you are faithful to me in all that I told you: Walk in peace.'
18:17	And Abraham went to his young men, and they arose and went to Beersheba; and Abraham dwelt beside the well of the oath.
18:18	And he observed the festival three times each year. For he also observed these seven days in joy, and he called it the festival of the Lord according to the seven days in which he went and returned.
18:19	And it was decreed and written in the heavenly tablets concerning Israel and concerning his seed that they should observe this festival for seven days, rejoicing in gladness.
19:1	And in the first year of the [first] week in the forty-second jubilee, Abraham turned and dwelt opposite Hebron—that is, Kiriath-arba—for two weeks of years.
19:2	And in the third week of this jubilee, the days of Sarah's life were completed, and she died in Hebron.
19:3	And Abraham came to mourn for her. And we tested him to see whether his spirit was patient and not faint-hearted in the words of his mouth. And he was found to be very patient in this also, and was not troubled.
19:4	For in patience of spirit he spoke with the sons of Heth, that they might give him a place where he might bury his dead.
19:5	And God gave him favor in the sight of all who saw him, and he entreated the sons of Heth in meekness, and they gave him the field of the double cave, which is opposite Mamre—this is Hebron—for four hundred pieces of silver.
19:6	And they requested this of him, saying, 'We give it to you for nothing.' But he did not take it from their hands for nothing, for he gave the price of the place, paying the money in full; and he bowed down before them twice, and after this he buried his dead in the double cave.
19:7	And all the days of the life of Sarah were one hundred and twenty-seven years, that is, two jubilees and four weeks minus one year; these are the days of the life of Sarah.
19:8	This was the tenth trial in which Abraham was found faithful, even in it, and patient in spirit.
19:9	And he did <not> speak a word concerning the promise of the land, as God had said to give it to him and to his seed after him, and he begged a place from them to bury his dead; for he was found faithful, and he was written down on the heavenly tablets as 'the friend of God.'
19:10	And in its fourth year, Abraham took a wife for his son Isaac; and her name was Rebekah, daughter of Bethuel, son of Nahor, Abraham’s brother, the sister of Laban, daughter of Bethuel; and Bethuel was the son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham’s brother.
19:11	And Abraham took for himself a third wife, and her name was Keturah, from the daughters of his household servants, because Hagar had died before Sarah.
19:12	And she bore him six sons: Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah, in two weeks of years.
19:13	And in the sixth [year] of this second week, Rebekah bore two sons to Isaac, Esau and Jacob. And Jacob was gentle and upright, but Esau was rough, a rustic and hairy man; and Jacob lived in tents.
19:14	And they grew up and both became young men. And Jacob learned letters, but Esau did not learn, for he was a wild man and a hunter; but he learned war, and all his deeds were fierce.
19:15	And Abraham loved Jacob, but Isaac loved Esau.
19:16	And Abraham saw the deeds of Esau, and he knew that through Jacob his seed and name would be called; and he called Rebekah and gave her instructions concerning Jacob, because she loved Jacob more than Esau.
19:17	And he said to her, 'My daughter, watch over the name of my son Jacob, for he will be for me a presence on the earth, and for a blessing among the children of men, and the glory of all my seed.'
19:18	For I know that God has chosen him for Himself as a holy people out of all the peoples that are upon the face of all the earth.
19:19	And behold, Isaac loves Esau more than Jacob, but I see that you love Jacob in truth.
19:20	Add yet more to care for him, and let your eyes be upon him in love, for he shall be for us a blessing upon the earth from now and unto every generation of the earth.
19:21	Therefore let your hands be strong, and let your heart rejoice in your son Jacob, for I have loved him above all my sons. Wherefore he and his seed shall be blessed forever, and he shall fill all the earth.
19:22	If, then, a person could count the sand of the earth, his seed also would be countable.
19:23	And all the blessings with which God blessed me and my seed shall belong to Jacob and to his seed all the days.
19:24	And in his seed my name and the name of my fathers shall be blessed: Shem, Noah, Enoch, Mahalaleel, Enosh, and Adam.
19:25	And they shall lay the foundations of heaven and establish the earth, so that all the luminaries of the firmament may be recognized.
19:26	And Abraham called...
20:6	And therefore, lest you also give your name for a curse, and your whole life for a hissing, and all your children for destruction and to the sword, and you become cursed like Sodom, and all your remnant like the children of Gomorrah.
20:7	And therefore I testify to you, my children: Love the God of heaven and cling to all His commandments, and do not go after all their abominations and after all uncleanness.
20:8	And you shall not make for yourselves molten gods or carved images, because they are vanity and there is no breath in them at all, for they are the work of hands, and all who trust in them trust in nothing. Therefore, do not serve them, and do not worship them.
20:9	Serve, rather, the Most High God, and worship Him by adoring and seeking His face at all times; and practice truth and righteousness before Him, so that He may guide you, and grant you mercy, and send down for you the early and the late rains, and bless all your works whatever you do upon the earth, and bless your bread and your water, and bless the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your land, the herds of your cattle and the flocks of your sheep.
20:10	And you shall be for a blessing upon the earth, and all the nations of the earth shall desire you, and they shall bless your children in my name, so that they may be for a blessing just as I am.
20:11	And he gave gifts to Ishmael, to his sons, and to the sons of Keturah, and sent them away from Isaac his son...
20:13	And these intermingled with those, and their name was attached to the Arabs and Ishmaelites unto this day.
21:1	And in the sixth year of the seventh week of this jubilee, Abraham called Isaac his son and commanded him, saying, 'I have grown old, and I do not know the day of my death, and I am full of my days.'
21:2	And behold, my son, I am one hundred and seventy-five years old; during the days of my life I have always kept our God in remembrance and sought Him with all my strength, that I might do all His will and walk uprightly in all His ways.
21:3	And therefore my soul has hated idols, and I despised those who serve them; and I gave my heart and my spirit to keep and do the will of Him who created me.
21:4	For God is living, and holy, and faithful, and righteous; and above all there is no partiality with him to accept gifts, for God is righteous and executes judgment upon all who transgress his words and who despise his testimony.
21:5	And you, my son, keep his commandments and his ordinances and his judgments, and do not go after abominations or after molten images.
21:6	And do not eat any blood of any flesh, whether of those that are on the earth or of those that fly in the air.
21:7	And if you sacrifice a sacrifice of peace offerings, sacrifice it and pour its blood upon the altar. And all the blood of the burnt offering you shall pour upon the altar with the fine flour, prepared in oil with its wine; you shall offer all these things upon the altar of offerings: it is a pleasing aroma before God.
21:8	And the fat of the peace offering you shall offer upon the fire upon the altar: the fat that covers the entrails, and all the fat that is on the inwards, and the two kidneys, and all the fat that is upon them and which is on the thigh, and the lobe of the liver, which is above the lungs, you shall separate with the kidneys.
21:9	And so you shall offer all things as a pleasing aroma, acceptable before the Lord, with their offerings and with its wine, for a pleasing aroma, food of the offerings to the Lord.
21:10	And you shall eat the flesh on that day and on the morrow, and the sun shall not set...
22:3	At that time Ishmael came to see his father, and they both gathered together. And Isaac sacrificed an offering of firstfruits and offered it upon the altar of his father which he had made in Hebron.
22:4	And he made a peace offering and held a feast of joy in the presence of his brother Ishmael. And Rebecca made a new cake from the new grain and gave it to her son Jacob, that he might bring it to Abraham his father from the first fruits of the earth, so that he might eat and bless the Creator of all things before he died.
22:5	And Isaac also sent by the hand of Jacob the best of his peace offerings and wine to his father Abraham, that he might eat and drink.
22:6	And Abraham ate and drank, and blessed the Most High God, who created heaven and earth, who made all the fatness of the earth and gave it to the children of men that they might eat and drink and bless their Creator.
22:7	And now I give thanks, O my God, that you have shown me this day; and behold, I am a son of one hundred and seventy-five years, an old man and full of days, and all my days have been peaceful to me.
22:8	And the sword of the enemy has not had dominion over me in all the days in which you gave me these sons of mine, all the days of my life until this day.
22:9	May your mercy and your peace now be upon this youth, O Lord, and upon his seed, so that they may be an acceptable people to you and an inheritance from among all the children of the earth from now on and throughout all the days of the generations of the earth for all ages.
22:10	And Abraham called Jacob his son and said: 'My son Jacob, may the God of all bless you and strengthen you to do truth and his will in his sight, and to choose you and your seed to be a people for him and to do his will all the days. And you, my son Jacob, draw near to me and kiss me.'
22:11	And Jacob drew near and kissed him. And he said: 'Blessed is my son Jacob and all his children to the Most High God in all things. May God give you a seed of truth, and from your children may you sanctify throughout the whole earth. Nations shall serve you, and all peoples shall bow down before your name.'
22:12	'Be strong before men, and exercise dominion over all the seed of Seth. Then your ways and the ways of your children shall be justified, so that they may become a holy people.'
22:13	'May the Most High God give you all the blessings with which he blessed me, and blessed Noah and Adam; and may they rest upon the top of the sanctification of your seed in every generation and generation forever.'
22:14	'And he will cleanse you from all defilement and injustice, so that he may be gracious to all your iniquities and your neglect; and he will strengthen you and bless you, and you will inherit all the earth.'
22:15	'And he will renew his covenant with you, so that you may be for him a people of inheritance for all ages, and he will be God to you and to your seed in truth and righteousness all the days of the earth.'
22:16	'And you, my son Jacob, remember my words and keep the commandments of your father Abraham. Separate yourself from the nations, and do not eat with them, nor act according to their deeds, and do not become their companion; for their works are pollution, and their entire way is uncleanness, abomination, and filth.'
22:17	'For they sacrifice to the dead and worship demons, and eat over graves, and all their deeds are empty and of no worth.'
22:18	'And they have no heart to reflect, nor do their eyes see what their deeds are and how they go astray, saying to wood: "You are my god," and to stone: "You are my lord and my deliverer"; and they have no heart.'
22:19	'And you, my son Jacob, may the Most High God help you, and the God of Adam strengthen you, and separate you from all their abominations and from all error...'
23:9	For the days of the ancients were his life. And in the nineteenth jubilee after the flood, the days of these jubilees began to decrease and grow old more quickly, and the days of their lives decreased because of the tribulation of many things and their turning to evil in their ways, except for Abraham.
23:10	For Abraham was perfect in all his deeds with God, and pleasing in truth all the days of his life. And behold, he did not complete four jubilees in his life until he grew old because of the wickedness of men, and he was satisfied with his days.
23:11	And the generations that arise from this time until the day of the great judgment will grow old quickly before they complete two jubilees, and their spirit of understanding will depart from them.
23:12	And in those days, if a man lives a jubilee and a half of years, they will say concerning him: 'His life has been long, and the greater part of his days were sorrow and distress, and there is no peace.'
23:13	For there shall be wound upon wound, and pain upon pain, and tribulation upon tribulation, and bad report upon bad report, and sickness upon sickness, and all his judgments evil in this manner with corruption: and disaster, and snows, and frosts, and ice, and fevers, and chills, and suffocating heat, and famine, and death, and sword, and captivity, and all kinds of plagues and mourning.
23:14	And all these things will come upon the generation that is wicked, which commits iniquity on the earth, with uncleanness and fornications and pollutions and the abominations of their deeds.
23:15	Then they will say: 'The ancient days were many, even up to a thousand years, and they were good days. But behold, the days of our life, if a man lives long, are seventy years, and if very strong, eighty; and these are evil, and there is no peace at all in the days of that most wicked generation.'
23:16	And in that generation children will rebuke their fathers and their elders on account of iniquity and injustices, and on account of the word of their mouth, and on account of the great wickedness that they do, because they forsake the covenant which God established between himself and them, to keep and to do all his commandments and his precepts and all his statutes, without turning aside to the right or to the left.
23:17	For all have done evil, and every mouth speaks evil, and all their works are uncleanness and hatred, and all their ways are pollutions, and abomination, and destruction.
23:18	And behold, the land will perish on account of all their deeds, and there is no seed, nor wine, nor oil, because all their deeds have been corrupted; and all the beasts, and cattle, and birds, and all the fish of the sea perish on account of the wickedness of the children of men.
23:19	And they will strive with one another: the young with the elders, and the elders with the young, the poor with the rich, the lowly with the great, and the needy with the one who exercises power in the law concerning the covenant, because they have forgotten the commandment and the covenant, the feast day and the month, the Sabbath and the jubilee, and all the judgments.
23:20	And they will stand with bow and with swords and in war to turn them back to the way; but they will not turn back until much blood is shed upon the earth, these against those.
23:21	And those who have been preserved will not depart from their wickedness to the way of truth; they will not turn back. For they will all exalt themselves to deceit and to riches, so that each one takes all that belongs to his neighbor; and they will call on a great name, but not in truth and not in righteousness. And they will pollute the holy sanctuary with the abominations of wickedness and with impurities.
23:22	And there will be great wrath from the Lord upon the deeds of that generation. And he will give them over to the sword and to judgment, into captivity, and into plundering, and into devouring.
23:23	And he will cause to rise up against them sinners, sinners of the Gentiles, to whom there is no [...]
24:14	And Isaac grew in the land of the Philistines, and he acquired great possessions: oxen and sheep, camels and donkeys, and a large household of servants.
24:15	And he sowed in the land of the Philistines and reaped a hundredfold, and Isaac became very great; and the Philistines envied him.
24:16	And all the wells that the servants of Abraham had dug during the lifetime of Abraham, the Philistines stopped up after the death of Abraham and filled them with earth.
24:17	And Abimelech said to Isaac: 'Depart from us, for you have become much greater than we.' And Isaac departed from there with his people in the first year of the seventh week.
24:18	And returning from there, they dug the wells of water which the servants of his father Abraham had dug, and which the Philistines had filled up after the death of his father Abraham; and he called them by names according to the names by which his father had called them.
24:19	And the servants of Isaac dug wells in the valley and found living water, and the shepherds of Gerar strove with the shepherds of Isaac, saying: 'The water is ours.' And Isaac called the name of the well 'Hardship,' because they were hard with us.
24:20	And they dug another well, and they strove over it also; and he called its name 'Enmity.' And they dug a third well, and they did not strive over it; and he called its name 'Broad Space.' And Isaac said: 'For now the Lord God has made room for us and multiplied us upon the earth.'
24:21	And [...] and [...] in the first year of the first week.
24:22	The Lord appeared to him on that night, on the first day of the first month, and said to him: 'I am the God of Abraham your father. Do not fear, for I am with you; and I will bless you and multiply your seed like the sand of the earth on account of Abraham my servant.'
24:23	And he built [...] which his father had built, and he called upon the name of the Lord and slaughtered sacrifices to the God of Abraham his father.
24:24	And they dug a well and found living water.
24:25	And the servants of Isaac dug another well again and did not find water; and they came and told Isaac that they had not found water. And Isaac said: 'Because I swore an oath on this day to the Philistines, this thing has happened to us.'
24:26	And he called the name of that place 'Well of the Oath,' because there Abimelech swore, along with Ahuzzath his companion and Phicol the commander of his army.
24:27	And Isaac knew on that day that [...] he had sworn to make peace with him.
24:28	And Isaac cursed the Philistines on that day and said: 'Cursed be the Philistine in the day of wrath and indignation from the midst of all the nations! May God deliver him over as a reproach and a curse and into the indignation of wrath, into the hand of a sinful people and into the hand of the Kittim!'
24:29	And may the righteous people root him out in judgment from under heaven, because they are enemies and adversaries to my children throughout their generations upon the earth.
24:30	And no remnant shall be left to them, nor any survivor escaping in the day of the wrath of judgment, but they shall be for destruction and extermination, so that all the seed of the Philistines may be removed from the face of the earth, and no name at all will remain to them upon the earth.
24:31	And if he should ascend even to heaven, from there he will be brought down; and wherever he is fleeing, from there he will be taken away; and if he hides himself in the midst of the nations, he will be uprooted; and if he descends into the underworld, there his judgment will abound, and there will be no peace for him there.
24:32	And if he goes away into captivity, into the hand of all who seek his life, he will perish even in the midst of Sheol, and he will have neither seed nor name in all the earth, because he will go into an eternal curse.
24:33	For thus it is written and sealed concerning him on the heavenly tablets, so that it may happen to him on the day of judgment that he will be uprooted from the face of the earth.
25:1	And in the second year of the weeks of this jubilee, Rebekah called her son Jacob and spoke to him, saying: 'My son, do not take for yourself [...]'
26:9	And Rebekah his mother said to him: 'Upon me be your curse, my son; only obey my voice.'
26:10	And Jacob obeyed the voice of his mother Rebekah, and he went and took two tender and good kids of the goats and brought them to his mother; and his mother made them into food just as he desired.
26:11	And Rebekah took the best garments of Esau, her older son, which were with her in the house, and put them on Jacob, her younger son; and she put the skins of the kids around his arms and shoulders and upon his bare neck.
26:12	She placed the food that she had prepared and the bread into the hands of Jacob her son.
26:13	And Jacob went in to his father and said: 'I am your son; I have done just as you told me. Rise up, sit, and eat of my game, father, so that your soul may bless me.'
26:14	And Isaac said to his son: 'How is it that you found it so quickly, my son?'
26:15	And Jacob said: "Because the Lord your God made it turn out well before me."
26:16	And Isaac said to him: "Come near to me and I will feel you, my son, whether you are my son Esau."
26:17	And Jacob came near to Isaac his father, and he felt him and said: "The voice indeed is the voice of Jacob, but the hands are the hands of Esau."
26:18	And he did not recognize him, because there was a turning away from heaven to distract his spirit. And he did not recognize him, because his hands were hairy like the hands of Esau his brother. And he blessed him.
26:19	And he said: "Are you my son Esau?" And Jacob said: "I am your son." And Isaac said: "Bring it near to me, and I will eat of your game, my son, so that my soul may bless you."
26:20	And he brought it to him and he ate, and he brought him wine and he drank.
26:21	And Isaac his father said to him: "Come near to me and kiss me, my son." And he came near and kissed him.
26:22	And he smelled the fragrance of his garments and blessed him, and said: "Behold, the smell of my son is like the smell of a full field which God has blessed.
26:23	And may [God] give to you..."
27:12	And Isaac sent Jacob away, and he departed for Mesopotamia, to Laban the son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebecca the mother of Jacob.
27:13	And it came to pass when he departed for Mesopotamia, the spirit of Rebecca was grieved after Jacob her son, and she wept.
27:14	And Isaac said to Rebecca: "My sister, do not weep for Jacob my son, for he will go in peace, and in peace he will return.
27:15	And the Most High God will guard him from all evil, and will be with him, and will not forsake him all the days.
27:16	For I know that all his ways will be prospered in everything in which he journeys, until he returns to us in peace, and we shall see him in peace.
27:17	Therefore do not fear concerning him, my sister, because he is on the upright path, and he will be a complete and truthful man, and he will not be forsaken; do not weep."
27:18	And Isaac comforted Rebecca on account of Jacob her son, and he blessed him.
27:19	And in the forty-fourth jubilee, in the second year of the week, Jacob went out from the Well of the Oath to go to Haran. And he arrived at Luz, which is on the mountain—this is Bethel—on the first day of the first month of this week. And he arrived at the place at evening, and turned aside from the road to the west of the path; on this night he slept there, for the sun had set.
27:20	And taking from the stones of that place, he put them under his head beneath a tree, and he was traveling alone.
27:21	And while sleeping, he dreamed on that night. And behold, a ladder was set up upon the earth, and its top reached into heaven. And behold, the angels of God were ascending and descending on it, and the Lord was resting upon it.
27:22	And he spoke with Jacob and said: "I am the Lord, the God of Abraham your father, and the God of Isaac; the land on which you are sleeping, I will give it to you and to your seed after you.
27:23	And your seed shall be like the sand of the earth, and it shall spread out toward the sea, and the east, and the north, and the south; and in you and in your seed all the tribes of the earth shall be blessed.
27:24	And behold..."
28:17	And when Rachel saw that Leah had borne four sons to Jacob—Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah—Rachel said to Jacob: "Go in to Bilhah my maidservant, and she will conceive and bear a son for me."
28:18	And she gave Bilhah her maidservant as a wife; and she conceived and bore a son, and she called his name Dan in the ninth month of this sixth year of the week.
28:19	And Jacob went in again to Bilhah, and she conceived and bore a second son to Jacob; and Rachel called his name Naphtali in the fifth month of the seventh year of the second week of the fourth (jubilee).
28:20	And Leah, seeing that she was restrained and was not bearing, gave her other maidservant to Jacob as a wife; and she conceived and bore a son, and Leah called his name Gad, in the twelfth month of the eighth year, on the third day of the fifth week.
28:21	He went in to her, and she bore him a son, and she called his name Asher, in the second month on the tenth day, in the fifth year of the fourth week.
28:22	He went in to Leah, and she conceived and bore a son, and she called his name Issachar; and in the fourth year, in the fifth month of the fifth year, on the day of the fourth week, she gave him to a wet nurse.
28:23	And Jacob went in again to Leah, and she conceived and bore two, a male and a female; and she called the name of the male Zebulun and the name of the female Dinah, in the seventh month of the seventh year, in the sixth (year) of the fourth week.
28:24	And God had mercy on Rachel and opened her womb, and she conceived and bore a son, and she called his name Joseph, on the first day of the fourth month, in the sixth (year) of this fourth week.
28:25	At the time when Joseph was born, Jacob said to Laban: "Give me my wives and my sons, and I will go to Isaac my father and make a house for myself, for I have completed the years in which I served you for your two daughters, and I will go to the house of my father."
28:26	And Laban said to Jacob: "Wait for me for wages, and pasture my sheep again, and I will give you wages."
28:27	And they agreed concerning the wages, that he would give him..."
29:9	For previously the land of Gilead was called the land of the Rephaim, because it is the land of the Rephaim. And there were born the Rephaim, that is, the giants, of ten cubits, and nine, and eight cubits, and even seven cubits was their height.
29:10	And their dwelling was from the land of the children of Ammon as far as Mount Hermon, and the seats of their kingdom were Karnaim, and Ashtaroth, and Edrei, and Samso..., and Seon.
29:11	And the Lord destroyed them on account of the wickedness of their deeds, because they were exceedingly evil, and in their place he caused Amorites to dwell, evil and sinners such that no nation is so hateful, because they filled up all their sins, and they have no longer length of life upon the earth.
29:12	And Jacob sent Laban away, and he went into Mesopotamia, into the land of the east; and Jacob turned back to the land of Gilead.
29:13	And in the ninth month Jacob crossed over, he and his eleven sons; and on that day his brother Esau came to him and was reconciled, and departed from him into the land of Seir; and Jacob dwelt in tents.
29:14	And in the first year of the fifth week of this jubilee he crossed over the Jordan and dwelt across the Jordan. And he was pasturing his sheep from the Salt Sea as far as the ascent of Akrabbim.
29:15	And he sent to his father Isaac from all his possessions garments, and food, and meat, and drink, milk, butter, and cheese, and dates from the valley.
29:16	And to his mother Rebecca, four times each year, in the middle of the seasons of the months: both during threshing until harvest, and in autumn, and during the autumn rains, and during the spring rains, at the dwelling of this Abraham.
29:17	For Isaac had returned from the Well of the Oath and had gone up to the dwelling of his father Abraham, and dwelt there in his land, he and his sons.
29:18	Because at the time when Jacob went into Mesopotamia, Esau took to himself a wife, Mahalath, the daughter of Ishmael; and his wife took all the flocks of his father, and going up, he dwelt on Mount Seir, and left Isaac his father at the Well of the Oath.
29:19	Therefore Isaac went up from the Well of the Oath to the dwelling of Abraham his father on the mountain of Hebron.
29:20	There Jacob would send whatever was needed to his father and to his mother season by season, all things that were necessary for them in all their use; and they were blessing Jacob with all their heart and with all their soul.
30:1	And in the first year of the sixth week he went up to Salem, to the east of Shechem, in peace, in the fourth month.
30:2	And there they carried off Dinah, the daughter of Jacob, into the house of Shechem, the son of Hamor the Hivite, the prince of the land; and he defiled her, for he lay with her, and she was a young girl, a daughter of twelve years.
30:3	And afterward he asked for her from her father and from all her brothers as a wife. And Jacob and his sons were indignant against the men of Shechem because they had defiled Dinah their sister, and they spoke to them deceitfully and mocked them with guile.
30:5	... it shall not happen any more that the daughters of Israel are defiled, because in heaven judgment was passed against them that they should fight with the sword against all of Shechem, because they wrought ignominy in Israel.
30:6	And the Lord handed them over into the hands of the sons of Jacob to root them out with the sword and that judgment might be executed upon them, and it shall no longer be in ... Israel that a virgin of Israel is defiled.
30:7	And any man among the children of Israel who chooses to give his daughter or his sister to any man from the seed of the Gentiles shall perish and be stoned with stones, because he has wrought ignominy in Israel; and the woman shall be burned with fire, because she has contaminated the house of her father; she shall be rooted out from Israel.
30:8	And there shall not be a harlot or an abomination in Israel all the days of the generations of the earth, because Israel is holy to the Lord; and any man who defiles it shall die by stoning.
30:9	For thus it is written and decreed on the heavenly tablets concerning all the seed of Israel: whoever defiles it shall surely die and be stoned with stones.
30:10	And there shall be no end of time for this law, nor shall there be any forgiveness or any atonement for it, but the man who defiles his daughter in the midst of the men of Israel shall be destroyed, because he has given of all his seed to a foreigner and acted impiously to defile it.
30:11	And you, Moses, command the children of Israel and testify to them that they should not give their daughters to the Gentiles, nor take from their daughters for their sons, because it is an abomination before the Lord.
30:12	For this reason I have written for you in the words of the Law all the words of the deeds of the Shechemites which they did to Dinah, and how the sons of Jacob spoke, saying: 'We will not give our daughter to a man who is uncircumcised, for that would be a reproach to us.'
30:13	And it is a reproach for Israel, those who give or take from the daughters of the Gentiles, because it is an abomination and uncleanness throughout all Israel.
30:14	And Israel shall not be cleansed from this abomination if there is a wife from the Gentiles among them, nor shall it be cleansed if we give our daughters to any of the Gentiles.
30:15	For plague upon plague and curse upon curse and all the judgments of plagues and curse of curses shall come upon anyone who does this deed; and if he transgresses and despises it, committing abomination and defiling the sanctuary of God, and those who defile his holy name, the whole people shall be judged together on account of all his abominations.
30:16	And he will not show partiality, nor will he accept sacrifice or burnt offerings, nor will he smell a sweet aroma so as to accept it; and every man or woman in Israel who defiles the holy things shall be...
30:17	Therefore I commanded you, saying: 'Testify with this testimony to Israel, and see what happened to the Shechemites and its sons, how they were delivered into the hands of the sons of Jacob, and they slew them in judgment; and it was counted to them for truth and recorded for them as righteousness.'
30:18	And the seed of Levi was inscribed for the priesthood and for Levites to minister before the Lord, just like us, all the days; and Levi and his sons are blessed forever, because he was zealous for the truth to execute judgment and vengeance against all who rose up against Israel.
30:19	And thus a blessing and righteousness are recorded for him as a testimony on the heavenly tablets before the God of all.
30:20	And the righteousness which a man performs in his life shall be remembered throughout all seasons of the year, up to a thousand years it shall be presented; and it shall come to him and to his seed after him, and he has been written down as a righteous friend on the heavenly tablets.
30:21	I have written for you all these words and commanded you to announce to the children of Israel that they do not do evil, and do not transgress the commandments, and do not break the covenant ordained for them, but perform them; and they shall be recorded as friends of God.
30:22	If, however, they transgress the covenant and act in all the ways of abomination which are written on the heavenly tablets, they shall be enemies of God, and they shall be blotted out from the book of life and written in the book of destruction among those who are rooted out from the earth.
30:23	And on the day when the sons of Jacob struck Shechem, a writing went up for them in heaven, that they executed righteousness and judgment and vengeance upon them; and they were recorded for a blessing.
30:24	And they brought out Dinah, their sister, from the house of Shechem, and they took captive everything that was in Shechem: their sheep, their oxen, their donkeys, all their possessions, and all their herds; and they brought everything to Jacob, their father.
30:25	And he spoke to them regarding why they had destroyed the city, for he was afraid of those who inhabit the land, the Canaanites and the Perizzites.
30:26	And the fear of the Lord came upon all the cities that were around Shechem, and they did not pursue after Jacob to harm him, because fear had fallen upon them.
31:1	And on the first day of the month...
31:10	And he declared to him, saying: "Truly they are my sons, and you have seen truly, father, that they are my sons."
31:11	And they drew near to him, and turning, he kissed them and embraced both of them together.
31:12	And the spirit of prophecy came into the mouth of Isaac, and he held Levi with his right hand and Judah with his left.
31:13	And he turned first to Levi and began to bless him first, and he blessed Levi, saying: "May the God of all and the Lord of the ages himself bless you and your sons forever and ever.
31:14	And may the Lord grant to you and to your great seed to understand his glory; and he will draw your seed near to himself out of all flesh, that you may serve him in his sanctuary like the angels of the presence and like the holy ones; and like them shall the seed of your sons also be, for glory and greatness and sanctification; and he has sanctified them forever and ever.
31:15	And they shall be princes and judges for all the seed of Jacob. They shall declare the words of God in truth, and all his judgments they shall examine in righteousness, and they shall declare my ways to this Jacob and my paths to this Israel. The blessing of God shall be given to his seed, that they may bless all the beloved seed.
31:16	Your mother called your name Levi, and in truth did she call your name. You shall be for the splendor of God and a companion to all the sons of Jacob. Your table shall be yours, and you and your sons shall eat of it, and forever your table shall be full, and your food shall not fail forever and ever.
31:17	And all who hate you shall fall before you, and all your enemies shall be destroyed and perish. For he who blesses you shall be blessed, and if there is any nation that curses you, it shall be cursed."
31:18	And to Judah he said: "God will give you strength and power, so that you may trample down all who hate you. You shall be a prince, and one of your sons... will go forth and take possession of the whole earth and its regions. Then peoples will fear before your face, and all the nations will be troubled, and all..."
31:30	And he said to Rebecca: "Go with your son." And Rebecca went with her son Jacob, and Deborah her nurse with her, and they arrived in Bethel.
31:31	And he remembered the blessing with which his father had blessed him and his two sons, Levi and Judah; and he rejoiced and blessed the God of his fathers, Abraham and Isaac:
31:32	"Now I know that I and my sons have an eternal hope before God Almighty; and thus it was appointed for the two of them and their portion in the eternal testimonies upon the heavenly tablets, just as Isaac blessed them."
32:1	And they slept that night in Bethel, and Levi dreamed that he was ordained as a priest of the Most High God forever; and waking from his sleep, he blessed God.
32:2	And Jacob, rising at dawn on the fourteenth day of this month, tithed everything that had come with him, from man unto every living creature, and from gold unto every vessel and garment; he tithed everything.
32:3	And at that time, when Rachel was carrying Benjamin her son in her womb, Jacob counted his sons beginning from him, and it went up and Levi fell as the portion of God; and his father clothed him in priestly garments and consecrated him.
32:4	On the fifteenth day of this month, he offered on it at the altar fourteen calves from the herd, and twenty-eight rams, and forty-nine sheep, and seven kids, and twenty-one male goats—these whole burnt offerings on the altar of fruits, acceptable for a sweet-smelling aroma before God.
32:5	This was his gift in accordance with the vow which he had vowed to tithe, along with their sacrifices and along with their wine.
32:6	And when the fire consumed the frankincense upon the fire from above, also the peace offering: two calves, four rams, two yearling lambs, two male goats. And he did this each day during the seven days.
32:7	And he blessed and sang praise to God, who had delivered him from all his tribulations, and because he had fulfilled his vow.
32:8	And he tithed all...
32:18	...wherever they set the sole of their feet against the children of men.
32:19	And I will give to your seed all the blessings that are under heaven, and they shall rule and exercise power over all nations according to their will, and after this they shall take possession of the whole earth and inherit it forever.
32:20	And when he had finished speaking with him, he ascended from him; and Jacob was watching until he had ascended from him into heaven.
32:21	And he saw in a vision of the night, and behold, an angel of God was descending from heaven with seven boxwood tablets in his hand; and he gave them to Jacob, and he read and understood what was written on them, and what would happen to him and his sons forever and ever.
32:22	And he showed him everything that was written on the boxwood tablets and said to him: "You shall not build up this place, nor shall you make it an eternal sanctuary, and do not dwell in this place, for this place shall not be thus. But go to the house of Abraham your father, and dwell with Isaac your father until the day of your father's death.
32:23	For in Egypt you shall die in peace, and in this land you shall be buried in glory, and you shall be laid in the tomb of your fathers with Abraham and Isaac."
32:24	"Do not be afraid, for just as you have seen and read, so shall all things be that are written, all of them."
32:25	And Jacob said: "Lord, how shall I remember everything that I have read and seen?" And he said to him: "I will bring all things to your remembrance."
32:26	And he ascended from him; and having awakened from his sleep, he remembered everything that he had read and seen, and he concealed all the words that he had read and seen.
32:27	And he observed one day there, and offered sacrifices on it equal to what he had been offering on the previous days; and he called its name 'Retention', because he was retained there one day; and the previous days he called feast days.
32:28	And thus it was made clear that they should be observed, and it was written on the tablets of heaven; for this reason it was revealed to him to observe that day and to add it to the seven feast days.
32:29	And its name was called 'Retention', because it was added to the days of the feast days according to the number of the days of the year.
32:30	And on the twentieth day of this month, on the third night, Deborah, the nurse of Rebecca, died. And they buried her below the city, under the oak in the wadi, and they called the name of that place 'the wadi of Deborah'.
32:31	And Jacob went and returned to the Tower to his father Isaac; and Jacob sent by his hand rams and sheep and he-goats to make food for his father according to his desire.
32:32	And he went after his mother until he arrived in Ephratah, and he remained there.
32:33	And Rachel gave birth that night to a son, and called his name Benjamin, in this jubilee, on the tenth day of the eighth month, in the first year of the sixth week.
32:34	Then Rachel died there and was buried in the land of Ephratah, that is Bethlehem; and Jacob built a monument over Rachel's grave, on the way to her grave.
33:1	And Jacob went and rested to the south of Migdal-Eder, and he went to his father Isaac, he and his wife Leah, on the first day of the tenth month.
33:2	And Reuben saw Bilhah, Rachel's handmaid, the concubine of his father, washing herself in water in a secret place, and he desired her.
33:3	And he went in secretly by night to Bilhah and found her sleeping on her bed alone in her tent.
33:4	And he lay with her, and she awoke; and behold, Reuben was with her on the bed. And lifting the covering, she seized him and cried out, and recognized that it was Reuben.
33:5	And he was ashamed before her, and she released her hands from him, and he fled.
33:6	And she grieved exceedingly over this, and told everyone how he came.
33:7	And when Jacob came, she told him and said to Jacob: 'I am not clean for you, for I have been defiled from you, because Reuben defiled me and lay with me at night; and I was asleep and did not know until he uncovered my covering and lay with me.'
33:8	And Jacob was very angry with Reuben, because he had lain with Bilhah.
33:9	And he did not know [---].
33:19	And make known to them the words of this covenant, that they may hear and take heed of them, so that they may not perish and not be uprooted from the land; for it is uncleanness and an abomination and hatred and defilement to all who do them upon the earth in the sight of our God.
33:20	And it is a great sin upon the earth, for Israel is a holy people to the Lord their God, and a people of inheritance, and a priestly, royal, and sanctified people; and let there be no uncleanness in the midst of the holy people.
33:21	And in the third year of this sixth week, Jacob and all his sons went and dwelt at the Tower of Abraham, near his father Isaac and his mother Rebecca.
33:22	Now these are the names of the sons of Jacob: the firstborn Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun, the sons of Leah; and the sons of Rachel: Joseph and Benjamin; and the sons of Bilhah: Dan and Naphtali; and the sons of Zilpah: Gad and Asher; and Dinah, the daughter of Leah, the only daughter of Jacob.
33:23	And when these arrived, they bowed down before Isaac and Rebecca. And when they saw them, they blessed Jacob and all his sons. And Isaac rejoiced greatly because he saw the sons of Jacob, his younger son, and he blessed them.
34:1	And in the forty-fourth jubilee, in the sixth year of this week, Jacob sent his sons to pasture his sheep, and his servants with them, to the field of Shechem.
34:2	And seven kings of the Amorites gathered against them and lay in wait in the grove in order to kill them and to plunder their sheep [---].
34:3	Now Jacob and Levi and Judah and Joseph were in the Tower beside his father Isaac, for his spirit was faint and they could not leave him. And Benjamin was younger; for this reason he had remained with his father.
34:4	And there came the kings: Saffo, and the king of Arco, and the king of Saragan, and the king of Shiloh, and the king of Gaash, and the king of Beth-horon, and the king of Manasaker, and all who dwell in the hill country and who dwell in the regions in the land of Canaan.
34:5	And it was told to Jacob: 'Behold, the kings of the Amorites [---].'
35:4	And how should I not do this word which you command me, that I should do to my father and to my brothers?
35:5	But I ask you, tell me, mother, what perversity you have seen in me, so that I may turn away from it, and the mercy of the Lord may be upon me.
35:6	And Rebecca said to him: 'My son, in all my days I have not seen in you any perverse deed, but what is upright. And yet I will tell you all the truth, my son: I am dying this year, and I shall not pass through this year still in my life. I shall die and not live any longer; [---] fifty years am I completing in my life.'
35:7	And Jacob laughed at the words of his mother, because [she said she was about to die]. And she was sitting before him, and was vigorous and not weak in her strength; for she was going out and coming in, and her teeth were strong, and sickness had not grieved her all her days.
35:8	And Jacob said to her: 'Blessed am I if my days draw near to the days of your life [---] in me [---] likewise [---] you have spoken with me about your death.'
35:9	And [she] went in [...] to Isaac and said to him: 'One petition I ask of you, that you adjure Esau that he not afflict his brother Jacob, and not persecute him, and not practice enmity against him. For you know the mind of Esau, that it is evil from his youth, and there is nothing upright in him. [...] his brother.'
35:11	We were asking [...] him from our [...] as if he were showing mercy to us.
35:12	And he was embittered against you because you had blessed your son Jacob, who is complete and truthful, because there is no wickedness in him [...].
36:20	And he served God with all his heart and with all his soul, and according to the visible commandments, according to the division of the times of his generations.
36:21	And in the forty-fifth jubilee, in the fourth year of the second week, Leah the wife of Jacob died, and they buried her in the double cave beside Rebecca his mother.
36:22	And all his sons and his servants were present to weep with him for Leah his wife, and to comfort him concerning her, because he was mourning for her.
36:23	For he loved her greatly from the day on which Rachel her sister died, because she was blameless and upright in all her ways, and honoring Jacob all the days that he lived with her; and he did not hear any wicked word from her mouth, because she was quiet and peaceful and [...] honorable [...].
36:24	And he was mindful of all her deeds which she did in her life, and therefore he loved her greatly with all his heart and with his soul.
37:1	And on the day that Isaac the father of Jacob and Esau died, the sons of Esau heard that Isaac had given the greater [...] honorable [...] portion to Jacob his younger son, and they were very indignant.
37:2	And they disputed with Esau, saying: 'Why has Jacob been preferred above you, though he is younger, and your father gave him the greater portion and made you inferior?'
37:3	And Esau said to them: 'Because I had given the birthright to Jacob for a little cooked lentil stew; and on the day on which my father sent me to hunt game for him so that after eating he might bless me, he came with deceit, brought food and drink to my father, and my father blessed him and placed me under his hand.'
37:4	And now our father adjured us, both me and him, that we should not seek evil against each other, each against his brother, and that we should be in love and in peace, a man with his brother, so that we do not practice malice against one another.
37:5	And they said to him: 'We will not listen to you to make peace with him, because our strength is mightier than his strength, and we are men stronger than he. We will go against him and kill him, and destroy him and [his] sons [...].'
38:2	Then Jacob bent his bow and sent forth an arrow, and struck Esau his brother in his right breast and cast him down.
38:3	And he shot a second arrow and struck Adoram the Aramean near his left breast, and cast him down and killed him.
38:4	And after this, the sons of Jacob went out, they and their servants, divided toward the four winds of the fortress.
38:5	And Judah went out first, and Naphtali and Gad with him, and fifty servants with him, toward the south of the fortress; and they slew as many as they found before them, and not even one of them escaped.
38:6	And Levi and Dan and Asher went out toward the east of the fortress, and fifty with them, and they slew the warriors of Moab and Ammon.
38:7	Reuben and Issachar and Zebulun and fifty of their men with them went out, and they too slew the warriors of Philistia.
38:8	And Simeon and Benjamin and Enoch the son of Reuben went out toward the west of the fortress, and fifty of their men with them, and they slew four hundred fighting men of Edom and of the Horites; and six hundred, and the four sons of Esau, fled with them and abandoned the body of their father cast out on the high place which is in Aduram.
38:9	And the sons of Jacob pursued after them as far as Mount Seir. And Jacob buried Esau his brother on the high place which is in Aduram, and returned to the fortress.
38:10	And the sons of Jacob besieged the sons of Esau on Mount Seir, and subjugated them so that they might be servants to the sons of Jacob.
38:11	And they sent to Jacob their father [asking] if they would make peace with them.
38:12	And they placed the yoke of servitude upon them, that they should pay tribute to Jacob and to his sons all the days.
38:13	And they were paying tribute to Jacob until the day of his going down into Egypt.
38:14	And the sons of Edom have not ceased from the yoke of servitude which the sons of Jacob imposed on them unto this day.
38:15	And these are the kings who reigned in Edom before a king reigned among the children of Israel, unto this day in the land of Edom:
38:16	Barad the son of Beor, and the name of his city [...]
39:9	And she approached him and grabbed him inside the house in order to force him and sleep with her, and she closed the doors of the house and held him. But Joseph left his garments behind, and opening the door he fled outside from her presence.
39:10	And when the woman saw that he despised her, she lied to her husband against him before his master, saying: 'This Hebrew servant of yours whom you loved attempted to force me, to sleep with me. And it happened, when I raised my voice, fleeing outside he left his garments in my hands, with which I had held his garments by the hem [...]'
39:11	And the Egyptian saw Joseph's garments and the broken door, and he heard the words of his wife, and put Joseph into the prison house, into the place where the king's prisoners were kept.
39:12	And he was there in chains, and the Lord gave him favor in the sight of the chief of the prison and mercy in his sight, because he saw that the Lord was with him, and all that Joseph did God prospered.
39:13	And therefore he committed everything into his hands. And the chief of the prison did not know anything of what was done in the prison, because Joseph was doing all these things, and the Lord was prospering them.
39:14	And he was there for two years. And at that time Pharaoh, king of Egypt, became angry with two of his eunuchs, that is, with the chief cupbearer and with the chief baker, and he put them into prison in the house of the chief of the cooks, in the prison where Joseph was also being held.
39:15	And the keeper of the prison appointed Joseph to minister to them, and he ministered before them.
39:16	And the men dreamed dreams, the chief cupbearer and the chief baker, and they told them to Joseph.
39:17	And just as Joseph had interpreted to them, so it was done to them. Pharaoh restored the chief cupbearer to his office, and he hanged the chief baker, just as Joseph had told him.
39:18	And the chief cupbearer was not mindful of Joseph in the prison, though he had told him whatever would happen to him; and he was not mindful to intercede with King Pharaoh to release Joseph, because he forgot.
40:1	And at that time Pharaoh dreamed two dreams in one night because of the famine that was to come upon [...] the earth. And having awakened from sleep, he called all the interpreters of dreams who were in his kingdom and the enchanters, and he told them his dreams; but they could not interpret his dreams for him.
40:2	Then the chief cupbearer remembered Joseph and told King Pharaoh about him; and he brought him out of the prison, and he recounted before him the two dreams [...].
40:4	'And now let Pharaoh appoint overseers throughout all the land of Egypt who shall gather food throughout each city and store it up during the seven years of abundance for the food that will be needed during the seven years of famine; and the land shall not perish because of the famine, for it will be very severe over all the land.'
40:5	And God gave Joseph favor and mercy in the sight of Pharaoh, and Pharaoh said to his servants, 'Can we find a man more prudent and wiser than this one, since the spirit of God is with him?'
40:6	And he made him second to himself over all his kingdom, having authority over all the land of Egypt, and he set him upon the second chariot which belonged to Pharaoh.
40:7	And he clothed him in a garment of fine linen, and put a gold chain upon his neck, and they proclaimed before him, 'Elel and Habirel,' and he put a ring on his hand. And he set him over all his house, and magnified him, and said, 'I shall not precede you except only in my throne.'
40:8	And Joseph received authority over the entire land of Egypt. And all the princes of Pharaoh and his servants and all who performed the work of the king loved him, because he walked in truth, and there was no pride or arrogance in him [...].
41:7	And he grew up, but Bathshua, the wife of Judah, did not permit Shelah her son to take her. And Bathshua, the wife of Judah, died in the fifth year of this week.
41:8	And in the sixth year of this (week), Judah went up to shear his sheep in Timnah, and it was told to Tamar: 'Behold, your father-in-law is going up to shear his sheep in Timnah.'
41:9	And she took off from herself the garments of her widowhood, and clothed herself in fine garments, and adorned herself, and sat by the gate beside the road to Timnah.
41:10	And when Judah arrived, he found her and thought she was a harlot, and said to her, 'Let me come in to you.' She said, 'Come in,' and he went in to her.
41:11	And she said to him, 'Give me my hire.' And he said, 'There is nothing in my hand except the signet ring that I have on my finger, and the cord, and the staff that is in my hand.'
41:12	And she said to him, 'Give them to me until you send my hire.' And Judah said, 'I will send you a young goat.' And he gave them to her, and was with her, and she conceived by him.
41:13	And Judah went away to the sheep,
41:14	and he sent her the young goat by the hand of his Adullamite shepherd, but he did not find her. And he asked the men of that place, saying, 'Where is that harlot who was here?' And they said to him, 'There is no harlot here with us.'
41:15	And returning, he told Judah, saying, 'I did not find her, and moreover I asked the men of that place, and they said that there was no harlot in that place.' And Judah said, 'Let her keep them, lest she mock us.'
41:16	And when three months had passed for her, it became evident that she was with child; and they told Judah, saying, 'Behold, Tamar your daughter-in-law is with child.'
41:17	And Judah came to the house of her father and said to her father and to her brothers, 'Bring her out and let her be burned with fire, because she has done uncleanness in Israel.'
41:18	And it came to pass, when she was brought out to be burned, she sent to her father-in-law the signet ring and the cord and the staff, and said, 'Recognize whose these are; by him I am with child.'
41:19	And [...]
42:2	Now in the land of Egypt there was bread, for Joseph had gathered the grain of the land during the seven years of abundance and was guarding it.
42:3	And the Egyptians came to Joseph so that he might give them food; and opening the storehouses in which the grain was, he gave it to them to eat in the first year, for he sold it to them.
42:4	Now the famine grew very severe in the land of Canaan, and Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt; and he sent his ten sons to obtain food for themselves, but he did not send Benjamin with them. And the ten sons of Jacob arrived in Egypt.
42:5	And Joseph recognized them, but they did not recognize him; and Joseph addressed them harshly and said to them, 'You have come to spy out the land!' and he imprisoned them.
42:6	And sending for them, he summoned them, and taking Simeon from them, he bound him and dismissed his nine brothers.
42:7	And he filled their containers and returned their money to them.
42:8	And he commanded them concerning their younger brother, that they should bring him.
42:9	And the sons of Jacob went up from the land of Egypt and came into the land of Canaan, and related to their father all that had happened to them, and how the ruler of the land had spoken harshly with them and had detained Simeon until, 'we present our brother Benjamin to him.'
42:10	And Jacob said: “You have bereaved me of children! Joseph is no more, and Simeon is no more. If you take Benjamin, your malice will be brought to fullness upon me.”
42:11	And he said: “My son shall not go with you, lest he fall ill on the way. For their mother bore these two: one has perished, and if you take this one and some illness befalls him on the way, you will bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to Sheol.”
42:12	For they told him that their money also had been returned to them with their vessels; and Jacob was afraid to send him with them.
42:13	Now the famine advanced and grew severe in the land, although many of the children of the Egyptians had kept their seed in store ever since they saw Joseph gathering grain and laying it up in storehouses so that it might be preserved during the years of famine.
42:14	And the Egyptians ate it...
45:9	And the seven years of famine were completed, and Joseph gave seed and food to the people of the land so that they might sow the land in the eighth year, because the river had risen over all the land of Egypt.
45:10	For in the seven years of famine it had not risen, and had not watered except for small places along the bank of the river; and in the eighth year the Egyptians sowed their land and gathered good fruit in that year.
45:11	This was the first year of the fifth week of the forty-fifth jubilee.
45:12	And Joseph took a fifth part of everything that grew in the land of Egypt as the royal portion, and four parts he gave to them for food and for seed; and Joseph set this before all the Egyptians as an ordinance in all the land of Egypt unto this day.
45:13	And Israel lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years, and all the years of his life which he lived during three jubilees were one hundred and forty-seven years; and failing, he died in the forty-fifth jubilee, in the fourth year of the fifth week.
45:14	Israel blessed his sons before he died and told them whatever would happen to them in the land of Egypt in the last days. And he blessed them, and Joseph he blessed twofold in the land.
45:15	And he slept with his fathers and was buried in the double cave in the land of Canaan, beside Abraham his father, in the tomb which he had dug for himself in Hebron.
45:16	And he gave all his books and the books of his father to Levi his son, that he might preserve them and renew them for his children unto this day.
46:1	And it came to pass after the death of Jacob that the children of Israel multiplied in the land of Egypt and became a great nation; and they were of one mind in their hearts, so that each loved his brother, and brother joined with neighbor...
46:12	And the king of Canaan devised an evil plan to afflict them.
46:13	And at that time the Egyptians said: “Behold, the people of the children of Israel has multiplied greatly and become more numerous than we. Come, therefore, let us afflict them before they multiply, and let us humble them in their works, lest war happen to come upon us and they also fight against us alongside our enemies and depart from our land, because their heart and their face are toward the land of Canaan.”
46:14	And the king placed taskmasters over them to afflict them in their works. And they built fortified cities for Pharaoh: Pithom and Rameses and On; and they built every wall that had been torn down in the cities of Egypt.
46:15	And they reduced them to servitude with violence, and the more they humbled them, so much more did they multiply.
46:16	And the Egyptians abhorred the children of Israel.
47:1	And in the forty-seventh jubilee, in the seventh year of its seventh week, his father arrived from the land of Canaan. And he begot in the fourth week, in the sixth year thereof, in the forty-eighth jubilee. This is the time of tribulation upon the children of Israel.
47:2	And Pharaoh the king of Egypt issued a decree against them, that they should cast into the river all their sons, every male that was born to them.
47:3	And they kept watch for seven months until the time when you were born. And your mother hid you for three months, but they informed on her.
47:4	And she, being afraid, made an ark and smeared it with bitumen and pitch, and placed it beside the bank of the river, and put you in it for seven days; and your mother would come by night and give you milk, while by day your sister Miriam guarded you from birds.
47:5	And at that time Thermuthis, the daughter of Pharaoh, went out to bathe in the river, and she heard the sound of your weeping, and she told her maiden to bring her the child; and they brought you.
47:6	And taking you out of the ark, she had compassion on you.
47:7	And your sister said to her: “Shall I go and call for you, if you wish, a Hebrew woman who may nurse him for you?” And she said to her: “Go.”
47:8	And she called her mother and yours, Jochebed; and she gave that woman wages...
47:10	And on the second day you found two of the children of Israel quarreling, and you said to the one who was striking his neighbor: “Why are you striking your brother?”
47:11	And he was angry in indignation... and said: “Who appointed you prince or judge over us? Do you mean to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday?” ...because of... of this...
48:1	And in the forty-ninth jubilee, in the sixth year of the third week, you went away and dwelt in the land of Midian... five weeks and one year. And in the fiftieth jubilee, in the second week, in the second year thereof, you returned to Egypt.
48:2	And you yourself know who spoke with you under Mount Sinai, and what Prince Mastema wished to do with you when you were returning to Egypt on the way in which you met him at the lodging place.
48:3	Did he not with all his power seek to kill you, that he might rescue the Egyptians from your hand, because he saw that you were sent to execute judgment and wreak vengeance upon the Egyptians?
48:4	And I delivered you from his hand, and you performed the signs and wonders, whatever you were sent to perform in Egypt, against Pharaoh, and against all his house, and against all his people.
48:5	And God openly wrought a great defense for Israel, and struck them with blood, and with frogs, and gnats, and dog-flies, and with malignant sores that were... and in the death of their cattle, and with hailstones he destroyed everything sprouting for them, and the locust devoured what was left behind by the hail, and with darkness, [and in the death] of their firstborn, both of humans and animals, and upon all the gods of the Egyptians the Lord executed vengeance...
49:8	For it is an eternal commandment, and written on the heavenly tablets concerning all the children of Israel, that they should observe it every year on its day, once a year throughout their generations; and there is no limit of time for it, because it is ordained forever.
49:9	And the man who is clean and does not take care to observe it on the day of its appointed time, so as to bring an acceptable offering before the Lord, to eat and to drink before the Lord on the day of its festival, he shall be cut off; and the man who is clean and who is near, because he did not offer an offering to the Lord in its appointed time, that man shall bear his sin.
49:10	And the children of Israel shall come and observe the Passover in its time, on the fourteenth day of the first month, toward evening, from its third part until the third part of the night; for two parts of the day are in the light and the third part is in the evening.
49:11	This is what the Lord commanded you, that you should observe it in the evening.
49:12	And it is not permitted that anyone should sacrifice at any hour of light except in the evening, and that they should eat it in the evening hours until the third part of the night; and whatever is left over of all the flesh from the third part of the night, this shall be burned with fire.
49:13	And it shall not be boiled in water, nor shall it be eaten raw, but roasted over the fire shall you eat it carefully. Its head with its innards and with its feet you shall roast with fire, and no bone of it shall be broken from all its bones; and there shall be no affliction among the children of Israel on this day.
49:14	Therefore the Lord commanded the children of Israel to observe the Passover on the day of its appointed time, and no bone of it is to be broken in it, because it is a festival day and a day of commandment. It is not to be passed over from day to day, or from month to month, but in its appointed time.
49:15	And you, command the children of Israel that they should observe the Passover throughout their generations every year, once a year, on the day of its appointed time; and it shall be an acceptable testimony before God, and no plague shall come from him to destroy or to cut them off in that year in which they observe the Passover in its time according to all its commandments.
49:16	And it shall not be eaten outside the sanctuary of the Lord, but beside the tabernacle of the Lord, and all the assembly of the children of Israel shall observe it in its appointed time.
49:17	And every man whosoever neglects during the muster to eat it in the sanctuary of our God before the Lord, from twenty years old and upward, because thus it is commanded and written, that it should be eaten in his sanctuary.
49:18	And when the children of Israel enter into the land of their possession, into the land of Canaan, and they pitch the tabernacle of God in the midst of the land in one of their tribes until the day when the sanctuary of God is built in the land, they shall come and observe the Passover before the tabernacle of God every year.
49:19	And at the time when the house is built in the name of the Lord in the land of their possession, there they shall offer and slaughter the Passover toward evening, about the setting of the sun, in the third part of the day.
49:20	And they shall offer its blood upon the base of the altar, and they shall offer the fat upon the fire of the altar, and they shall eat the flesh roasted with fire in the court of the house that is sanctified in the name of the Lord.
49:21	And they shall not be able to observe the Passover in their cities or in any place except before the tabernacle of the Lord and before the house where his name has dwelt upon it, and they shall not go astray from following the Lord.
49:22	And you, Moses, command the children of Israel that they keep the ordinance of the Passover; and as it was commanded to you, declare to them each year at the time of its days, and concerning the festival day of unleavened bread, that they should eat unleavened bread seven days, and observe its festival, and offer an offering each day during the seven days of joy before...
