1:1	These are the Canons of our Fathers the Holy Apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ, which they appointed in the Churches.
1:2	Rejoice, O our sons and daughters, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, said John and Matthew, and Peter, and Andrew, Philip and Simon, James and Nathanael, Thomas and Cephas, Bartholomew, and Judas the brother of James.
1:3	According to the command of our Lord Jesus Christ, our Saviour, that we should assemble together, he enjoined us, saying (whereas we had not yet divided the countries among us), Ye shall divide them among you so that each one may take his place according to your number.
1:4	Appoint the orders for Bishops, stations for Presbyters, and continual service for Deacons: prudent persons for readers, and blameless for widows; and appoint all other things by which it is meet the foundation of the Church should be established, that by them may be known the type of the things in heaven, that they may keep themselves from every spot. And they should know that they shall give account to God in the great day of judgment for all the things which they have heard and have not kept.
1:5	And He commanded us to make known these words in all the world.
2:1	It also appeared to us, that each one of us should speak as the Lord hath given him grace, according to the will of God the Father, by the Holy Spirit, making remembrance of His words, that we may command them to you. They will be remembered, and the fraternal teaching.
3:1	John said, " Men and brethren, we know that we shall give account for those things which we hear, and for those things which have been commanded us. Let not any one of us accept the person of his friend. But if any one should hear his friend speak of those things which are not profitable, let him restrain him, saying, " what thou sayest is not good." It therefore pleased them that John should speak first.
4:1	John said, " There are two ways, one is the way of life, and the other is the way of death; and there is much difference in these two ways. But the way of life is this, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, who created thee, and thou shalt glorify him who redeemed thee from death; for this is the first commandment. But the second is this, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments hang the law and the Prophets."
5:1	Matthew said, " Every thing that thou wouldest not should be done to thee, that do not thou also to another; that is, what thou hatest do not to another. But thou, O Peter my brother, teach them these things."
6:1	Peter said, " Thou shalt not kill; thou shalt not commit adultery; thou shalt not commit fornication; thou shalt not pollute a youth; thou shalt not steal; thou shalt not be a sorcerer; thou shalt not use divination; thou shalt not cause a woman to miscarry, neither if she hath brought forth a child shalt thou kill it. Thou shalt not covet any thing that is thy neighbour's: thou shalt not bear false witness: thou shalt not speak evil of any one, neither shalt thou think evil. Thou shalt not be double-minded, neither shalt thou be double-tongued, for a double tongue is a snare of death. Thy speech shall not be vain, neither tending to a lie. Thou shalt not be covetous, neither rapacious; nor a hypocrite, nor of an evil heart, nor proud. Thou shalt not speak an evil word against thy neighbour. Thou shalt not hate any man, but thou shalt reprove some, and shalt have mercy upon others. Thou shalt pray for some, and shalt love others as thy own soul."
7:1	Andrew said, " My son, flee from all evil, and hate all evil. Be not angry, because anger leads to murder, for anger is an evil demon. Be not emulous, neither be contentious, nor quarrelsome, for envy proceeds from these."
8:1	Philip said, " My son, be not of unlawful desires, because desire leads to fornication, drawing men to it involuntarily: for lust is a demon. For if the evil spirit of anger is united with that of sensuality, they destroy those who shall receive them. And the way of the evil spirit is the sin of the soul. For when he seest a little quiet entering in he will make the way broad; and he will take with him all other evil spirits: he will go to that soul, and will not leave the man to meditate at all, lest he should see the truth. Let a restraint be put to your anger, and curb it with not a little care, that you may cast it behind you, lest it should precipitate you into some evil deed. For wrath and evil desire, if they are suffered always remaining, are demons. And when they have dominion over a man they change him in soul, that he may be prepared for a great deed: and when they have led him into unrighteous acts, they deride him, and will rejoice in the destruction of that man."
9:1	Simon said, " My son, be not the utterer of an evil expression, nor of obscenity, neither be thou haughty, for of these things come adulteries."
10:1	James said, " My son, be not a diviner, for divination leads to idolatry; neither be thou an enchanter, nor an astrologer, nor a magician, nor an idolater; neither teach them nor hear them; for from these things proceeds idolatry."
11:1	Nathanael said, " My son, be not a liar, because a falsehood leads to blasphemy. Neither be thou a lover of silver nor a lover of vain glory, for from these thefts arise."
11:2	" My son, be not a murmurer, because repining leads a man to blasphemy. Be thou not harsh, nor a thinker of evil, for of all these things contentions are begotten. But be thou meek, for the meek shall inherit the earth. And be thou also merciful, peaceable, compassionate, cleansed in thy heart from all evil. Be thou sincere, gentle, good; trembling at the words of God which thou hast heard, and do thou keep them. Do not exalt thy- self, neither shalt thou give thy heart to pride, but thou shalt increase more and more with the just and humble. Every evil which cometh upon thee receive as good, knowing that nothing shall come upon thee but from God."
12:1	Thomas said, " My son, he who declares to thee the words of God, and hath been the cause of life to thee, and hath given the holy seal to thee which is in the Lord, thou shalt love him as the apple of thine eyes, and remember him by night and day: thou shalt honour him as of the Lord: for in that place in which the word of power is, there is the Lord; and thou shalt seek his face daily; him, and those who remain of the saints, that thou mayest rest thee on their words: for he who is united to the saints shall be holy. Thou shalt honour him according to thy power, by the sweat of thy brow, and by the labour of thy hands: for if the Lord hath made thee meet that he might impart to thee spiritual food, and spiritual drink, and eternal life, by him; it becomes thee also the more, that thou shouldest impart to him the food which perishes and is temporal; for the labourer is worthy of his hire. For it is written, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox treading out the corn: neither does any one plant a vineyard and not eat of the fruit thereof."
13:1	Cephas said, " Thou shalt not make schisms: thou shalt reconcile in peace those who contend with one another. Judge in righteousness without accepting of persons. Reprove him who hath sinned, for his sin. Suffer not wealth to prevail before God, neither justify the unworthy, for beauty profiteth not; but righteous judgment before all. Doubt not in thy prayer, thinking whether what thou hast asked of him will be or not. Let it not indeed be that when thou receivest thou stretchest out thine hand, but when thou shouldest give thou drawest thy hand to thee. But if thou hast at hand thou shalt give for the redemption of thy sins. Thou shalt not doubt, thou shalt give; neither when thou hast given shalt thou murmur, knowing this reward is of God. Thou shalt not turn away from the needy, but shalt communicate with the needy in all things: Thou shalt not say these things are mine alone. If ye communicate with one another of those things which are incorruptible, how much rather should ye not do it in those things which are corruptible?"
14:1	Bartholomew said, " I beseech you, my Brethren, while you have time, and he who asks remains with you, (and) you are able to do good to them, do not fail in any thing to any one, which you have the power to do.
14:2	For the day of the Lord draweth nigh, in which every thing that is seen shall be dissolved, and the wicked shall be destroyed with it, for the Lord cometh, and his reward is with him.
14:3	" Be ye lawgivers to your own selves; be ye teachers to yourselves alone, as God hath taught you. Thou shalt keep those things which thou hast received, thou shalt not take from them, neither shalt thou add to them."
15:1	Peter said, " Men and brethren, all the remaining precepts of the holy scriptures are sufficient to teach you; but let us declare them to those to whom we have been commanded." Then it pleased them all that Peter should speak.
16:1	Peter said, " If there should be a place having a few faithful men in it, before the multitude increase, who shall be able to make a dedication to pious uses for the Bishop to the extent of twelve men, let them write to the churches round about them, informing them of the place in which the multitude of the faithful (assemble and) are established.
16:2	" That three chosen men in that place may come, that they may examine with diligence him who is worthy" of this grade. If one of the people who hath a good reputation, being guiltless, without anger, a lover of the poor, prudent, wise, not given to wine, not a fornicator, not covetous, not a contemner, not partial, and the like of these things.
16:3	" If he have not a wife it is a good thing; but if he have married a wife, having children, let him abide with her, continuing stedfast in every doctrine, able to explain the Scriptures well; but if he be ignorant of literature let him be meek: let him abound in love towards every man, lest they should accuse the Bishop in any affair, and he should be at all culpable."
17:1	John said, " If the Bishop whom they shall appoint hath attended to the knowledge and patience of the love of God with those with him, let him ordain two Presbyters when he has examined them."
18:1	And all answered, not two, but three, because there are twenty-four Presbyters — twelve on the right hand, and twelve on the left. John said, "You have rightly recalled these things to remembrance, O my brethren; for when those on the right hand have received the censers from the hands of the angels, they present them before the Lord But those on the left hand shall be sustained by the multitude of angels. But it behoves the Presbyters that they should be in the world, after the manner of old men, removing far off, that they should not touch a woman, being charitable (and) lovers of the brethren: that they should not accept persons, being partakers of the holy mysteries with the Bishop, assisting in all things, collecting the multitude together, that they may love their Shepherd. And the Presbyters on the right hand have the care of those who labour at the altar, that they should honour those who are worthy of all honour, and rebuke those who merit their rebuke. The Presbyters on the left hand shall have the care of the people, that they may be upright, that no one may be disturbed. And they shall instruct them that they should be in all subjection. But when they have instructed one, answering contumaciously, those within the altar should be of one heart, and one mind, that they may receive the reward of that honour according to its desert. And all the rest shall fear lest they should deviate, and one of them should become changed like one wasting away, and all should be brought into captivity."
19:1	James said, " The Reader shall be appointed after he has been fully proved; bridling his tongue, not a drunkard, not a derider in his speech, but decorous in his appearance; obedient, being the first to congregate on the Lord's-day; a servant knowing what is meet for him, that he may fulfil the work of publishing the Gospel. For he who fills the ears of others with his doctrines, it becomes him the more that he should be a faithful workman before God."
20:1	Matthew said, " Let the Deacons be appointed by three testifying to their life. For it is written, 'By the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established.' Let them be proved in every service, all the people bearing witness to them, that they have resided with one wife, have brought up their children well, being humble, prudent, meek, sober, quiet; not vehement, nor murmurers; not double tongued, nor wrathful, for wrath destroyeth the wise; nor hypocrites. They shall not afflict the poor, neither shall they accept the person of the rich; they shall not be drinkers of much wine, being ready to act in every good service in secret. Cheerful in their habitations, constraining the brethren who have, that they should open their hand to give. And they also being givers, the goods being in common, that the people may honour them with all honour, and all fear, beseeching with great earnestness those who walk in dissimulation. And some they should teach, and some they should rebuke, but the rest they should prohibit. But let those who despise, and the contumelious, be cast out, knowing that all men who are vehement, or slanderers, fight against Christ."
21:1	Cephas said, " Let three widows be appointed; two, that they may give their whole attention to prayer for every one who is in temptations, and that they may render thanks to him whom they follow. But the other one should be left constantly with the women who are tried in sickness, ministering well; watching and telling to the Presbyters the things which take place. Not a lover of filthy lucre; not given to drink; that she may be able to watch, that she may minister in the night. And if another one desires to help to do good works, let her do so according to the pleasure of her heart; for these are the good things which the Lord first commanded."
22:1	Andrew said, " Let the Deacons be doers of good works, drawing near by day and night in every place. They must not exalt themselves above the poor; neither must they accept the persons of the rich. They shall know the afflicted, that they may give to him out of their store of provisions; constraining those who are able for good works to gather them in, attending to the words of our Master, ' I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat.' For those who have ministered without sin, gain for themselves much confidence."
23:1	Philip said, " Let the laymen obey the decrees which have been delivered to them for the laity, being in subjection to those who serve at the altar. Let every one please God in the place to which he hath been appointed. They should not love hostility to one another. They should not envy for the situation which is appointed for each one; but let every one abide in the calling to which he hath been called of God. Let not any one inquire after the offence of his neighbour, in his course on which he has entered, for the angels exceed not the command of the Lord."
24:1	Andrew said, " It is a good thing to appoint women to be made Deaconesses."
25:1	Peter said, "We have first to appoint this concerning the Eucharist, and the body and blood of the Lord: we will (then) make known the thing diligently."
26:1	John said, "'Have you forgotten, O my brethren, in the day that our Master took the bread and the cup he blessed them, saying, 'This is my body and my blood'? You have seen that he gave no place for the women, that they might help with them. (Martha answered for Mary because he saw her laughing: Mary said, 'I laughed not'). For he said to us, teaching, that the weak shall be liberated by the strong."
27:1	Cephas said, " Some say it becomes the women to pray standing, and that they should not cast themselves down upon the earth."
28:1	James said, "We shall be able to appoint women for a service, besides this service only, that they assist the indigent."
29:1	Philip said, " Brethren, concerning the gift, he who labours gathers for himself a good treasure; but he who collects for himself a good treasure, collects riches for himself in the kingdom of heaven. He shall be reputed a workman of God, continuing for ever."
30:1	Peter said, " Brethren, the authority is not of one, by constraint, but as we were commanded by the Lord.
30:2	" I pray you that you keep the commandments of God, not taking any thing from them, nor adding to them; in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, whose is the glory for ever. Amen.,,
